Activist Arbitrage:  
A Study of Open-Ending Attempts of Closed-End Funds 
 
Michael Bradley, Alon Brav, Itay Goldstein, and Wei Jiang* 
December 2008 
 
Abstract 
This paper documents frequent attempts by activis t arbitrageurs to open-end discounted closed-
end funds, particularly after the 1992 proxy refo rm which reduced the costs of communication 
among shareholders.  Open-ending attempts have  a substantial effect on discounts, reducing 
them, on average, to half of thei r original level.  The size of the discount is a major determinant 
of whether a fund gets attacke d. Other important factors incl ude the costs of  communication 
among shareholders and the governance structure of  the targeted fund.  Ou r study contributes to 
the understanding of the actions undertaken by arbitrageurs in financial markets beyond just pure 
trading.  
JEL Classification:  G14; G34; K22. 
Key Words:  Activist arbitrage; Closed-end funds; Proxy reform. 
                                                 
* Bradley is from the Fuqua School of Business, Duke University.  Brav is from the Fuqua School of Business, 
Duke University and National Bureau of Economic Res earch (NBER).  Goldstein is  from the Wharton School, 
University of Pennsylvania.  Jiang is from the Graduate School of Business, Columbia University.  Bradley can be 
reached at phone: (9 19) 660-8006, email: bradley@duke.edu; Brav at phone: (919) 660-2908, email: 
brav@duke.edu; Goldstein at phone: (215) 746-0499, email: itayg@wharton.upenn.edu; and Jiang at phone: (212) 
854-9679, email: wj2006@columbia.edu.  An earlier version of this paper circulated under the title: “Costly 
Communication, Shareholder Activism, and Limits to Arb itrage: Evidence from Closed -End Funds.” We thank an 
anonymous referee, Lucian Bebchuk, Jonathan Berk, Martin Cherkes, Franklin Edwards, Ron Gilson, Jarrad Harford, 
Ayla Kayhan, Ronald Masulis, Jeffery Pontiff, Andrei Shleifer, Laura Starks, and Jeremy Stein for useful comments 
and discussions.  We also thank seminar participants at Berkeley, Binghamton, Columbia, Emory, Kellogg, 
Minnesota, Rice, Stockholm School of Economics, Ts inghua, and Yale, and participants in the following 
conferences: the 2 nd Annual Meeting of the Financia l Research Association, the 2 nd Bi-Annual Conference of the 
Financial Intermediation Research Societ y, the Annual Conference of the Center for Asset Management at Boston 
College, the 2006 NBER Summer Institute in Corporate Governance, the SIFR Conference on Institutions, Liquidity, 
and Asset Prices, and the AFA 2007 Annual Meeting .  We would like to thank Phillip Goldstein from ‘Bulldog 
Investors’ (previously, ‘Opportunity Partners’) for his insights on the closed-end fund industry and on key aspects of 
activism in this area.     
 1
1.  Introduction 
Closed-end funds (CEFs) are am ong the most interesting asse ts in financial markets.  
Trading at substantial discounts from their net a sset values (NAVs), closed-end funds constantly 
attract arbitrageurs who take pos itions and wait for the eventual convergen ce of the CEF share 
price to its NAV.1   
A phenomenon that has not received mu ch attention in the literature is activist arbitrage.  
Unlike the traditional pure-trading arbitrage , activist arbitrageurs do not simply wait for 
convergence, but rather take actions to open-end the target fund, knowing that upon open-ending 
the price of the fund’s shares will be forced to converge to the NAV.   
We conduct a comprehensive empirical study of the attempts of activist arbitrageurs to 
open-end closed-end funds in the U.S.  We show that this form of arb itrage has become quite 
common since the mid-1990s.  We study the extent to which activist arbitrage activities can 
eliminate or reduce CEF discounts, and analyze the factors that determine which funds are 
targeted by activist arbitrageurs.  Overall, our study contributes to the unde rstanding of the full 
spectrum of activities taken by arbi trageurs attempting to eliminate deviations of market prices 
from intrinsic values. 
Our analysis is based on a unique hand-coll ected dataset consisting of all activist 
arbitrageurs’ activities in U.S. based CEFs between 1988 and 2003.  Activist arbitrage in closed-
end funds was quite rare until the early 1990s.  However since 1993—the year after which the 
SEC significantly relaxed c onstraints on communication am ong shareholders of public 
corporations—this type of arbitrage has beco me very common.  Several arbitrageurs—hedge 
funds, endowment funds, banks, and financial ar ms of corporations—have become quite active 
in initiating proxy contests and proposals targeted  at open-ending discounted CEFs.  In the peak 
years of 1999 and 2002, about 30% of the funds in our sample were targets of such attacks.   
We find that activist arbitrage has substant ial impact on CEF discounts.  While most of 
the open-ending attempts in our sample were me t with resistance from the funds’ managements, 
quite a few led to successful open-endings despite such resist ance.  In addition, activists’ 
                                                 
1 The profitability of arbitrage strategies in the CEF mark et has been studied by Thompson (1978), Brauer (1988), 
and Pontiff (1995).  Lee, Shleifer and Thaler (1991), Pontiff (1996), and Gemmill and Thomas (2002) provide 
evidence on the limits to this arbitrage.  For a survey of the CEF literature, see Dimson and Minio-Kozerski (1999).   
 2
activities were sufficiently credib le in many instances to induce fund managers to take actions 
themselves to reduce the size of the discount.  We show that  open-ending attempts reduce the 
discount of the targeted funds by more than 10 percentage point s on average (considering both 
the successful and unsuccessful attemp ts).  This is substantial, gi ven that discounts  of targeted 
CEFs are around 20% of NAV in the years before an open-ending attempt.  We show that this 
effect of activist arbitrage is above and beyond the mean revers ion in discounts that has been 
documented in previous literature. 
A key variable that guides ac tivist arbitrageurs in  choosing which fund to target is the 
fund’s discount from its NAV.  Our empirical results suggest that a one percentage point increase 
in the discount is associated w ith a 0.77 percentage point increase in  the probability of an attack 
in a given year.  This correlation is the result of a dual relation between CEF discounts and open-
ending attempts.  While the probability that a f und will be attacked by activists should increase 
with the size of the discount because of th e increased profit opportunity, forward-looking 
discounts should decrease in anticip ation of future attacks.  Us ing an instrumental-variables 
approach and an econometric technique that allo ws us to estimate a simultaneous system of an 
endogenous dummy variable and an endogenous c ontinuous variable (based on the work of 
Rivers and Vuong (1988)), we dise ntangle the two effects and show  that a one percentage point 
increase in the discount leads to a 1.03 percentage point increas e in the probability of an open-
ending attempt.  The increase is substantial give n that the unconditional probability of an open-
ending attempt in our sample is about 15%.   
The fact that discounts shrink in anticipatio n of future attacks suggests that activist 
arbitrage affects CEF discounts not only via the direct effect on th e targeted funds, but also via 
an indirect anticipation effect.  That is, some funds’ discounts may decrease without any 
noticeable attacks, simply because such attacks are anticipated in the future. 2  Hence, the above 
effect of activist arbitrage on discounts should be considered a lower bound. 
Another important determinant of activist ar bitrage is the ease of communication and 
coordination among shareholders.  Shareholder communication is crucial because in order to 
open-end a fund, an activist needs to communicate  with many other shareholders and convince 
                                                 
2 Despite this strong effect, however,  discounts have not decreased after 1992, when attacks became much more 
common, compared to their levels during 1988-1992.  This suggests that other forces that generate discounts became 
stronger in the late 1990s.  After 2000 discounts have been declining overall.     
 3
them to support his plan of action.  Indeed, on e of the main activists in our sample, Phillip 
Goldstein, notes that: “The firs t thing you have to do as an ac tivist is to form a good network. 
You have to be able to call up institutional investors and ask, ‘What would you think about 
this?’”3  The fact that open-ending attempts became so common after the SEC’s 1992 proxy 
reform that relaxed constraints on sharehol der communication highli ghts the importance of 
communication in the process of activist arbitrag e.  To investigate the role of communication 
further, we conduct tests using cross-sectiona l measures of the cost s of communication in 
different funds.  
We use three proxies for the ease of communication among the stockholders of a 
particular fund.  The first is turnover, which meas ures the frequency at which the shares of the 
CEF change hands.  A high turnover rate  indicates greater costs of communication because 
frequent changes of shareholders  make it difficult to locate and inform them of an activist’s 
intent.  The second variable is the average size of trade in the fund’s shares.  Larger trades 
indicate that, on average, shareholders hold bigg er positions in the fund, and thus, the fund has 
fewer shareholders which are easier to communicate with.  The third variable is the percentage of 
institutional ownership in the fund.  Institutiona l investors typically hold larger positions, are 
more informed, and are more likely to cast votes  for shareholder proposals and proxy contests 
than retail investors (who are often blamed for apathy).  Due to regulatory disclosure 
requirements (such as the quarterly 13F filings of  holdings), they are also easier to locate and 
notify regarding an activist’s intent.   The results of our em pirical tests are consistent with the 
hypothesis that smaller costs of communication enhance activist ar bitrage.  Interestingly, the 
effects of the above proxies are present only afte r the legal reform of 1992.   Our results suggest 
that before the 1992 Reform, communication among sh areholders was so severely restricted by 
the SEC that cross-sectional differences in the shareholder base did not matter much for activist 
arbitrageurs.   
Finally, the governance of funds also play s an important role in determining the 
probability of an open-ending attempt.  Funds that have pro-mana ger governance structures (i.e., 
have staggered board, supermajority voting, and ability of the board to call a special meeting) are 
more likely to be targets for activism after the legal reform of 1992, but not before.  This is likely 
                                                 
3 See: Harvard Business School Case N9-208-097: “Opportunity Partners,” by Robin Greenwood and James Quinn. 
 4
because communication among shareholders is particularly important when managers have more 
power.  While managerial entrenchment attr acts more attacks after 1992, we find that it 
lengthens the time needed to implement a successf ul open-ending.  This re sult is related to the 
study by Del Guercio, Dann, and Partch (2003) on governance in closed-end funds.  They find 
that board characteristics regarding the funds’ governance structure affect the implementation of 
restructuring proposals. 
The literature on closed-end funds has e volved along two major strands. Studies by 
Barclay, Holderness and Pontiff (1993), Ross ( 2002), Berk and Stanton (2007), and Cherkes, 
Sagi, and Stanton (2008) emphasize the agency  problem between outside shareholders and 
managers and insiders as the source of CEF di scounts.  Studies by Lee,  Shleifer and Thaler 
(1991), Pontiff (1996), and Gemmill and Thomas ( 2002) emphasize the limits to (pure-trading) 
arbitrage in expl aining CEF discounts.  4  Our study speaks to both stra nds of the literature.  On 
the one hand, the fact that open-ending attempts  are affected by a fund’s governance structure 
suggests that agency problems play at least some role in the existence of CEF discounts.  Further 
evidence of agency problems in CEFs is our fi nding that discounts shrink after corrective actions 
(such as an increase in dividends, the initiati on of a share buyback program, or a reduction in 
fees) taken by fund management in response to ac tivist arbitrageu rs’ activities.  On the other 
hand, our work also shows that costly sharehol der communication due to ownership structure or 
legal constraints are additional limits to arbitrage that prevent the convergence of CEF share 
prices to NAVs.  
As mentioned above, prior research on closed-end funds (conducted mostly before the 
1992 reform) largely ignores the possibility of activ ist arbitrage, arguing that such a strategy is 
very costly and difficult  to execute (Lee, Shleifer, and Thaler  (1991)) and is likel y to fail due to 
resistance of managers and blockholders (Barcl ay, Holderness, and Pontiff (1993)). Two studies 
from that period—Brauer (1984) and Brickley and Schallheim (1985)— analyze the return 
realized by shareholders upon actua l open-ending CEFs.  Unlike our  analysis, however, they do 
not look at the full array of open-ending attempts to analyze their determinants and 
consequences.  Moreover, since their analys is is conducted in a period where open-ending 
attempts were quite rare, they study a much smalle r sample than we do in this study.  Our paper 
                                                 
4 Attempts to explain the discounts by arguing that the me thods used to calculate NAVs overstate the value of the 
assets due to tax liabilities or illiquidity have been shown long ago to be  unpersuasive (see Malkiel (1977)).   
 5
is also related to the literature on shareholder activism in public corporations in general, which 
was recently surveyed by Gillan and Starks (2007) , although the focus of the analysis in our 
paper is very different from that literature. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.  In Section 2, we describe the history 
of the SEC regulations of the proxy process and especially the legal reform of 1992.  We also 
describe key institutional details of activist arbitrage in closed-end funds.  Section 3 describes the 
unique dataset used for our empirical analysis.  In Section 4, we develop the methodology used 
in our empirical analysis and present our empirical results on the determinants and consequences 
of activist arbitrage and its relation with CEF discounts.  Section 5 o ffers some concluding 
remarks. 
 
2.  Background  
2.1.  SEC Regulation of the Proxy Process and the 1992 Reform 
Dissident shareholders have two main ave nues by which they can impose changes in a 
corporation (including a closed-e nd fund).  They can initiate a proxy contest and put forward an 
alternative slate of directors to replace the firm’s current board and achieve ultimate control over 
the corporation, or they can put forth a share holder proposal to improve the firm’s governance 
structure, its investment st rategy, or its overall operations. 5  The issues raised by dissidents in 
proxy contests and shareholder proposals are re solved by shareholders’ voting.  In the voting 
process, also called the proxy process, the dissident  shareholders try to ge t the proxies of other 
shareholders to cast their votes in support of the changes they wish to make.6   
The rules governing the proxy process were first establis hed by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) in 1935 under the au thority granted by S ection 14(a) of the 
                                                 
5 Activism can also be pursued via takeovers.  In such a case, the arbitrageur acquires control over the firm, and 
makes restructuring decisions without being dependent on the votes of other shareholders.  The profit from such a 
strategy is the capital gain realized by the activist once the improved operating strategy is reflected in the share 
price.  Interestingly, takeovers are virt ually non-existent in the closed-end fund industry.  A possible reason is the 
anti-pyramiding provision of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Section 12(d)(1)), which prevents investment 
companies from holding more than 3% of the shares of other investment companies.  This restriction prevents 
obvious potential activist arbitrageurs from attempting takeovers of closed-end funds.   
6 There is a fundamental difference between the voting on a proxy contest and the voting on a shareholder proposal, 
in that the outcome of the latter does not bind the management.  In addition, proxy contests are more expensive. 
 6
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  One of the fi rst rules enacted by the SEC required any party 
soliciting proxies (requesting votes) from other shareholders to register and disclose certain 
information prior to contacting shareholders.  The proxy solicitation documents were reviewed 
by the SEC.  This often led to  significant negotiations between the SEC and the soliciting party 
before approval was granted to the activists to communicate with shareholders.   
The proxy rules have evolved significantly since 1935.  The most significant amendments 
were enacted in 1956.  These amendments cr eated major deterrents to communication among 
shareholders throughout a proxy process.  The cen tral feature of the 1956 amendments was a 
change in the definition of a proxy solicitation.  Under the new definition, a solicitation consisted 
of any communication under circumstances  reasonably calculated to influence voting decisions.  
This liberal interpretation of solicitation drama tically expanded the power of the SEC to require 
registration and review al l proxy materials before they were communicated to shareholders.  In 
addition, public statements, analyses of voting issues, and any impromptu communications made 
through television, speeches or on the radio were severely restricted.  Finally, the new proxy 
rules placed restrictions on communications co ntaining complex, sophisticated, or forward-
looking language (such as predicti ons regarding future sales, earni ngs, etc.) and any criticisms 
regarding the competency of the firm’s current management. 
Clearly, these rules had a stifling effect on stockholder communica tion.  Moreover, the 
impact of the regulations fell mostly on dissident s, who face significantly greater costs than the 
incumbent management in a proxy contest.  These limitations on shareholder communication 
have been subject to wide cri ticism for their negative impact on the efficiency of the voting 
process.  Pound (1991) provides an excellent summary of these criticisms.   
In 1992, the SEC enacted major revisions in proxy rules.  The new rules relaxed the 
prevailing definition of a proxy solicitation to exclude any communication by shareholders when 
not directly seeking the power to vote as proxy for other shareholders, as long as the 
shareholders’ motive was only to gain pro rata with other shareholders.  The 1992 amendments 
also specifically excluded shareholders’ public statements of their voting intentions and/or voting 
rationale (including public spe eches, press releases, newspaper advertisements, and internet 
communications) from the definition of a solicitation.  These changes allowed independent 
shareholders to freely engage in communication without being monitored by the SEC.   
 7
 
2.2.  Activism in the Closed-End Fund Industry 
There are only a handful of arbitrageurs who actively engage in attempts to liquidate or 
open-end CEFs.  Consider, for example the following quotation from a Business Week article: 
“Some institutions are more aggressive than others.  A few groups are known for 
their activism: Newgate Management Associates, based in Greenwich Conn., 
Harvard College, City of London Investme nt Management, Lazard Freres & Co., 
and Phillip Goldstein, who runs Opport unity Partners, a $40 million hedge fund 
that specializes in closed-end funds in Pleasantville, N.Y.  Their stake in a closed-
end fund does not guarantee an open-ending, but the odds are higher.”7 
Our review indicates that the arbitrageurs me ntioned in the previous  quote are, with minor 
exceptions, those that tend to dominate the activism in the CEFs market.8   
Since some of the activists’ activities on whic h we focus are relative ly unexplored in the 
literature, we discuss in some detail the atte mpt by Phillip Goldstein to open-end the Emerging 
Germany Fund.  This example reflects some co mmonalities in the beha vior of dissident 
shareholders and the managements of CEFs.  These include: (1) activists target deeply 
discounted funds; (2) the attacks are conduc ted by more than one  arbitrageur, and 
communication plays a key role in the success of the attack; (3) the managements of CEFs often 
object to open-ending attempts and fight them over an extended period of time; and (4) the 
arbitrageurs use various tools to intervene in the operations of a CEF, including shareholder 
proposals and proxy contests.  Figure 1 provides an illustration of th e evolution of this dissident 
attack and the resultant effect on the fund’s discount.   
[Insert Figure 1 here] 
In mid-March 1997 the Emerging Germany F und submitted its proxy filing, which 
included a shareholder proposal filed by Phillip Goldstein “reco mmending that the board of 
directors expedite the process to  ensure the Fund's shares can be purchased and/or sold at net 
                                                 
7 Source: Toddi Gutner, When the lead comes off closed-end funds, BUSINESS WEEK, Sep.29, 1997.  
8 Other key players include Ron Olin, Bankgesellschaft Berlin AG, and Laxey Partners Limited.   
 8
asset value.” (See Form DE F 14A filed March 18th 1997 9)  The fund advised shareholders to 
oppose this proposal in the upcoming shareholder meeting in April.  At that meeting the proposal 
was defeated (2.7 million for, 3.6 million against,  and 1 million abstained). By the end of 1997 
both Phillip Goldstein and another prominent dissi dent, Ron Olin, jointly held 14 percent of the 
fund’s outstanding shares (see DFRN14A filed January 11th 1999 10 ). In addition, 
Bankgesellschaft Berlin, FMR Corp. and Lazard Fr eres & Co. were bene ficial owners of 14 
percent, 10 percent, and 10 percent, respectiv ely, of the fund's outstanding shares. (DEF 14A 
filed March 6th 1998). 
In early 1998 the fund embarked on a program to distribute to its  shareholders on a 
quarterly basis approximately 2.5 percent of NAV, for a total of at least 10 percent annually. The 
managed distribution policy was intended “to enhance shareholde r value” (N-30D filed March 
2nd 199811). 
On March 27th, 1998, Phillip Goldstein again submitted a letter to the fund’s management 
advising them of his intention to attend the fund’s annual shareholder meeting on April 27 and to 
nominate himself and three others for election as directors of the fund.  He also revealed his 
intention to submit four proposals for consideration by the shareholders, including proposals that 
essentially would require open-ending the fund and firing the fund’s investment advisers. During 
the course of this increasingly hostile battle, Mr. Goldstein was an active participant in electronic 
“discussions” on an Internet discussion board and a number of the messages that he posted 
addressed the proposals that he wanted sharehol ders to consider at the annual shareholders’ 
meeting.  On April 8, 1998 the fund withdrew its notice of the April 27, 1998 meeting and 
commenced a lawsuit against both Mr. Goldstein and Mr. Olin, alleging violation of the proxy 
solicitation rules and benefi cial ownership disclosure provisions  of U.S. federal securities laws 
(PRE 14A filed April 8th 1998 and PRE 14A filed April 27th 199812). 
Throughout 1998 Deep Discount Advisors, Inc. and Ron Olin Investment Management 
Company continued to increase their holdings of the fund’s shares.  As of November 6, 1998 the 
                                                 
9 A Form DEF 14A is a document sent by publicly listed corporations to their shareholders providing material 
information on corporate matters subject to vote at the annual meeting. 
10 A Form DFRN 14A contains the definitive non-management proxy solicitation material. 
11 A Form N-30D is a semi-annual report that contains information on fund performance and other important 
information. 
12  A form PRE 14A is a preliminary proxy statement providing official notification to designated classes of 
shareholders of matters to be brought to a vote at a shareholders meeting. 
 9
combined beneficial holdings of the two entiti es represented approximately 14.5% of the fund’s 
outstanding shares.  In a le tter to the fund’s management dated November 6, 1998, Deep 
Discount advisors Inc. requested that the board no minate Mr. Olin and three of his associates as 
Directors of the fund for the next annual st ockholders’ meeting, which was scheduled for 
January 26, 1999.  The letter made clear that if elected, this diss ident slate of directors would 
take the necessary steps to open-end the fund. 
Seeing the writing on the wall, in late 1998 th e management of the fund made a package 
of proposals designed to open-end the fund (DEF 14A filed January 4 th 1999).  The package was 
accepted at the shareholder meeting held on Ja nuary 26, 1999, and the fund announced that it 
would convert to an open-end, no-load mutual fund at the close of business on Monday, May 3, 
1999.  With the announcement, the fund’s disc ount from its NAV virtually disappeared.  
Following the announced plan, the fund was later open-ended.   
 
3.  Data  
From the Center for Research in Security  Prices (“CRSP”) database, we gathered 
information on all closed-end funds that were in existence at any time over the period 1988 
through 2002.13  We also collected information on th ese funds through 2005 to allow for post-
event analyses.  Based on information contained in various issues of Barron’s and Morningstar’s 
Principia publications, as well as data obtained from Lipper, we then reduced  this sample to 
funds managing either domestic or international eq uity, including sp ecialized equity 
funds.  Eliminated from the sample were cl osed-end funds investin g in convertible bonds, 
preferred stocks, taxable bonds, re al estate, private equity, a nd municipal bonds.  We also 
excluded exchange-traded funds and funds incorporated outside the United States.  Our selection 
criteria reflect the need to obtain accurate NAV information so that the key variable in our 
analysis, fund discounts, could be measured wit hout error.  The resulting sample includes 142 
closed-end funds that were traded sometime over the period 1988-2002.   
For each fund in our sample, we collected information on all events that might potentially 
be related to activist arbitrage during 1988-2003.  These events include any attempt of open-
                                                 
13 In order to identify closed end funds in the CRSP databa se, we used the 'share code' variable. We included all 
shares for which the code is 14 (ordinary common share of a closed-end fund).  
 10
ending, merger, or liquidation, as well as funds’ decisions to repurchase shares, make managed 
distributions, and conduct rights offerings.  This information was collected from various sources.  
First, we hand-collected all reports filed with the SEC th rough SEC’s website Edgar during 
1988-2003.  Since the Edgar database is incomplete  prior to the mid-90s, we examined Lexis-
Nexis for filings in earlier years.  We retrieve d registration statements, proxy related materials, 
and annual reports from the SEC database.  Sec ond, we collected news stories using databases 
such as Factiva (formerly Dow Jones Interactive) , Proquest, Lexis-Nexis, as well as articles 
published on the Internet.  Third, we acqui red various monthly publications from Thomas 
Herzfeld Advisors.  These publications provide a thorough description of the full universe of 
closed-end funds’ corporate activities ranging from liquidations and mergers that have already 
been consummated to outstanding and unresolved activities.   
Based on these data, we constructed two f und activity indicators,  one denoted “Open-
Ending Attempts” and the other “Open-Endings.”  For “Open-Endings” the indicator variable is 
assigned the value ‘1’ if an open-ending, merger, or liquidation occu rred in a give n year and ‘0’ 
otherwise.  The variable “Open- Ending Attempts” is given the value ‘1’ if an attempt had been 
made to open-end or liquidate the fund in a given year and ‘0’ otherwise.   
Three technical points on the construction of these variables should be noted.  First, 
attempts include both shareholder proposals and pr oxy contests.  While almost all the attempts 
involve shareholder proposals, proxy contests are used in 56.5% of  the cases.  Second, our main 
analysis includes 8 open-ending cases that were initiated by managers after a condition of a 
lifeboat provision—a commitment cont ained in the fund’s Bylaws or Articles of Incorporation to 
take actions to reduce the di scount under certain sp ecified circumstances—had been met.  
Managers can always (and often do) object to ope n-ending when a lifeboat provision is being 
met.  Thus, we interpret a “voluntary” open-en ding as an equilibrium decision that managers 
make after assessing the pressure from outside investors.  Third, some funds were the targets of 
open-ending attempts over multiple years.  Attemp ts in later years are counted as new events 
only if they represent a distinctly new round of attacks. 
Figure 2 plots the time trends of open-e nding attempts and actual open-endings, 
liquidations and mergers into open-end funds from 1988 to 2003.  As can be seen from the 
graphs, there is a clear upward trend in open-ending attempts af ter the 1992 Reform, especially 
 11
after 1994.  In early 1990s, only 3- 4% of the funds were subject to activists’ attacks.  In the peak 
years of 1999 and 2002, the percentage rose to ar ound 30% of the sample funds.  The number of 
actual open-endings, however, did not change significantly following the legal reform. 
[Insert Figure 2 here] 
Table 1 Panel A reports the summary statistics  of the major fund ch aracteristics that we 
employ in our analysis.  We acquired  monthly NAV and price data from Securities Data 
Corporation (SDC).  In a few cases, we ob tained the NAV and price data from Herzfeld 
Advisors.  Following the literature, fund discounts ar e calculated as (NAV-Price)/NAV.  In most 
years, about 80%-90% of the CEFs traded at a discount, similar to the numbers documented in 
prior research.  Institutional ho ldings are taken from Thomson Financial’s Spectrum Data, and 
insider holdings are taken from Thom son Financial’s Lancer Analytics. 14   We obtained 
information on price, volume, return, dividend, market capitaliza tion, and turnove r rate from 
CRSP.  Fund age is the number of years since the fund was first listed on CRSP.  The annual 
dividend yield is calculated as the difference between the funds’ annual buy-and-hold return with 
dividends and the buy-and-hold return without dividends.   
Table 1 Panel B lists the summary statistic s of the fund policy variables for the full 
sample period and sub-periods.  We  collected information on the ex istence of a staggered board, 
supermajority, special meeting, and confidential voting by examining the funds’ filings with the 
SEC.15  Information on lifeboat provisions were  obtained from the SEC filings and from a 
special Herzfeld publication dedicated to a su rvey of lifeboat provisi ons among closed-end 
funds.  A fund is coded as having a lifeboat if it states explicitly  that open-ending  is a possible 
outcome to be considered by the management, or  if it indicates commitment to making a tender 
offer or share repurchase in cases of a persiste nt discount.  Finally, information on management 
fees was obtained from SDC.  To disentangle time trends from composition effects, we 
separately report the summary statistics in each period for old and new funds, depending on 
whether the fund is in our sample for more than three years. 
[Insert Table 1 here] 
                                                 
14 The Thomson Financial’s Lancer Analytics database reports the updated number of shares held for all the insiders 
reported to the SEC.  The measure of total insider holdings , used in our analysis, is then calculated as the sum over 
all insiders of their most recent reported holdings before the fiscal year-end. 
15 We do not present statistics on confidential voting since there is little cross-sectional variation in this variable. 
 12
 
4.  Empirical Results 
4.1.  Determinants of CEF Discounts   
CEF discounts provide the motivation for activis t arbitrage.  The core of our analysis, 
presented in Section 4.2.2, consis ts of estimating a system of equations where the discount and 
activist arbitrage activities are simultaneously determined.  An important first step is to 
understand the determinants of CEF discounts.  We now provide a brief overview of the key 
cross-sectional determinants of  CEF discounts that have been documented in the literature.  
Table 2 presents regression results in  which the dependent variable is DISCOUNT, defined as 
(NAV-Price) / NAV.  The first column presents results based on a pooled regression with year 
fixed effects, and the second column presents results based on Fama-MacBeth type regressions. 
[Insert Table 2 here] 
CEF discounts are often attributed to mi spricing.  Pontiff (1996) and Gemmill and 
Thomas (2002) studied the rela tion between deviations of CE F share prices from NAVs and 
variables that proxy for the costs of pure-trading arbitrage and thus proxy for the difficulty of 
eliminating mispricing.  We adopt his suggested va riables in our re gressions.  First, we use the 
market capitalization ( MV) of CEFs and the market price ( P) of CEF shares to proxy for 
transaction costs, which make ar bitrage more costly.  The rationale for the inclusion of market 
price is that bid-ask spreads tend to be relatively fixed at low prices.  Second, we use the residual 
standard deviation of a fund’s NAV return (STDNAV) as a proxy for the diffi culty in replicating 
the fund’s underlying portfolio.16  On the one hand, the more difficult it is to replicate the fund’s 
underlying portfolio, the more costly are arbitrage activities, and the more likely it is that price 
will deviate from NAV.  This can lead to a high er discount.  On the other hand, a CEF might be 
created precisely because investors are willing to  pay a premium for the hard-to-replicate fund’s 
assets, which could lead to a higher premium or a lower discount.  Third, we include the 
dividend yield ( DIV).  Pontiff (1996, 2006) argues that it  should be easier to execute a pure-
                                                 
16 The residual is calculated from a regression of a fund’s NAV return, in excess of the risk-free rate, on the Fama-
French three-factor model plus an additional momentum f actor.  To these factors we add two MSCI international 
indices, representing the European and the Far East markets.   
 13
trading arbitrage on a fund with a higher divide nd yield since the higher payout reduces the 
expected holding cost.   
We find that a lower share price is indeed associated with a higher discount.  Market 
capitalization, however, does not  impact the magnitude of  the discounts when other 
characteristics are included.  We complement these measur es of transaction costs with another 
common measure of liqui dity: share turnover ( TO).  This variable is calculated as the yearly 
share volume scaled by the number of shares outstanding.  As expect ed, this measure is 
negatively related to the discount. 17  We also find that the relation between STDNAV and the 
discount is negative and significant .  This result, which reflects the sum of two opposite effects, 
is consistent with the result in Table II of Pont iff (1996).  Finally, we fi nd that dividend yields 
are negatively related to discounts.   
Other important variables that we employ refl ect the potential agency costs between fund 
managers and shareholders, whic h are often cited as a cause fo r CEF discounts.  Based on the 
literature, our proxies for agency  costs are the expense ratio ( FEES) and the proportion of a 
fund’s shares held by insiders (INSIDER).  We find that FEES does not explain discounts.18  This 
finding has also been documented by Malkiel (1977), Barclay, Holderness and Pontiff (1993), 
Gemmill and Thomas (2002) and Del Guercio, Dann, and Partch (2003).  On the other hand, 
higher insider ownership is overall significantly associated with higher discounts, consistent with 
Barclay, Holderness and Pontiff (1993).   
Lastly, we include fund age (AGE) and the presence of a lifeboat provision (LIFEBOAT).  
The literature has documented that CEFs tend to  trade at a premium af ter their initial public 
offering, and over time start trading at a discount.  The regression results confirm this pattern, 
although with low statistical significance.  As expected, the existence of a LIFEBOAT appears to 
reduce discounts.  
Our regressions also include year fixed eff ects.  As a robustness  check, Column 3 of 
Table 2 considers a more parsimonious alternativ e to year dummies.  Following Lee, Shleifer 
                                                 
17 We consider alternative measures of liquidity based on Lesmond, Ogden, and Trzcinka (1999)  and Pastor and 
Stambaugh (2003).  For both measures, higher illiquidity is indeed associated with higher fund discounts although 
only the second measure is marginally significant.   
18 The result does not change significantly if FEES is replaced with the residual from a regression of FEES on fund 
characteristics that could affect expenses for non-agency related reasons.   
 14
and Thaler (1991), we use the difference between the return on small stocks and large stocks as a 
proxy for investor sentiment.  The results show  that the proxy for sen timent is significantly 
related to the discount in the predicted negative direction.   
Overall, a handful of covariates are able to explain a reasonable portion of the cross-
sectional variation in fund disc ounts:  they jointly explain 18.2% of the total variation in 
DISCOUNT at the fund-year level with the inclus ion of year dummies.  We include these 
covariates as we proceed to analyze the relation between discounts and activist arbitrage. 
 
4.2.  Analysis of Open-Ending Attempts 
4.2.1.  Closed-End Fund Discounts around Open-Ending Attempts:  Overview 
We begin our analysis of open-ending attemp ts and their relation to CEF discounts by 
exploring the behavior of fund discounts around an open-ending attempt.  The left panel of Table 
3 considers all funds that were attacked.  Here, funds that are actually open-ended are treated as 
having a zero discount af ter the open-ending.  Co lumn 1 shows the average path of raw fund 
discounts around an open-ending atte mpt.  It demonstrates the decline in discount following 
attempt.  On average, a closed-end fund’s disc ount is greater than 20% of its NAV two years 
before an attack.  The discount drops to about 5.6% of NAV three years after the attack. 
[Insert Table 3 Here] 
In order to provide a more mean ingful interpretation of the effects of an attack, we adjust 
for time trends in the CEF industry and for the hi stories of the attacked funds.  Columns 2 and 3 
present the changes in the discoun t of attacked funds in excess of  the mean discount of all funds 
in the same year and in excess of a fund’s own historical average, re spectively. Historical 
averages are calculated as a fund’ s average discount from all year s up to four years before the 
current attack (an observation would drop out of the calculation for columns (3) and (7) if the 
historical discount is not available). The results indicate that funds that are subsequently attacked 
by activists tend to have high discounts.  The di scount drops substantiall y after the attack, and 
drops further in the subsequent three years.   
It is possible that the results discussed above are due to mean reversion.  Indeed, previous 
literature has documented that CEF discounts e xhibit a tendency for mean reversion.  If 
 15
arbitrageurs target deeply di scounted funds, the above pattern could be obtained independently 
of the attacks themselves.  Column 4 addresses this issue.  For each fund i under attack in year t, 
we find all the funds that did not experience attacks between t-3 and t+3 and that had t-2 
discounts that are between  90% and 110% of fund i’s discount in t-2.19  We then report the 
discount of event funds in excess of the matched funds in column 4. 20  We find that, on average, 
funds that are attacked in year t have a discount at t+3 that is more than 8 percentage points 
lower than that of funds th at had similar discount at t-2 and were not attacked.  Hence, discount 
patterns of attacked funds cannot be explained solely by mean reversion. 
Finally, the right panel of Table 3 (columns 5-8) repeats the analysis of columns 1-4 only 
for the surviving sample.  That is, here, funds drop out of the sample after they are open-ended.  
The purpose of this analysis is to show that open-ending attempts affect the discounts of attacked 
funds even if they end up not being open-e nded.  This happens because fund managements 
typically adopt remedial actions to fight discounts after the fund is attacked.  Hence, Greenwood 
and Schor’s (2008) result that the value-added from activism is associated only with firms that 
disappear from the public market does not seem to apply in our sample of closed-end funds. 
In detail, looking at the right panel, we can see a similar, albeit more moderate behavior, 
of the discounts of attacked f unds that survived as we saw fo r the whole sample of attacked 
funds.  Column 8 addresses the issue of whether this  pattern can be attributed to mean reversion.  
The short answer is no: during th e first two years of the attac k, funds that survive realize a 
greater reduction in their discount s than funds that started with a similar discount and were not 
attacked.  However, unlike the case for the whol e sample (column 4), the result disappears two 
years after the attack. (The results for t+2 and t+3 in column 8 are statistically insignificant).     
 
4.2.2. Determinants of Open-Ending Attempts:  Dual Relation between Attempts and Discounts   
 We now turn to a rigorous econometric anal ysis of the determin ants of open-ending 
attempts.  The most important determinant is of  course the discount.  Estimating the effect of 
                                                 
19 For nine cases, this range is widened to 80% to 120% due to data availability. 
20 Note that the excess discount in t-2 is very close to zero by construction.  Our choice of t-2 as the matching year 
reflects a balance between being close enough to the event, but still far enough to be roughly free from the 
anticipation effect that causes a decrease in the discount of the attacked fund before the attack started. 
 16
discounts on open-ending attempts is a complicat ed task.  While deeply discounted CEFs are 
expected to attract more attacks since they offe r greater potential profit to arbitrageurs, a CEF 
discount should decrease if the market expects that  the fund is susceptible to an attack.  Thus, a 
simple reduced-form regression of observed at tacks on observed discount s could underestimate 
the sensitivity of attacks to discounts and understate the rati onal-expectation’s component in 
discounts.  The structural model underlying our analysis reflects these effects:   
 
()
*
,, 1 , 1 ,
*
,,
,1 ,2 , ,
,, 1
,
(0 ) ,
,,
,0 .
it it it it
it it
it it it it
it it
ATTEMPT DISCOUNT X
ATTEMPT I ATTEMPT
DISCOUNT X Z Z
corr
−−
−
=β+ γ + ε
=>
=μ +μ +ω ≠Θ
ρ= ε ω ≤
 (1) 
In (1), subscripts i and t index for fund and year, respectively.  *
,itATTEMPT  is a latent 
variable for the propensity of fund i to be the target of an open-ending attempt in year t, and 
,itATTEMPT  is the observed binary outcome summ arizing whether an open-ending attempt 
occurred or not. (The construction of this  variable was described in Section 3.)  ,itDISCOUNT  is 
defined as in Section 4.1.  ,itX  is a vector of variables that affect both the discount and the 
probability of an open-ending attack.  ,itZ  is a vector of instrumental  variables that only affect 
discounts directly.  The ways in which variables ,itX  and ,itZ  affect the discount were reviewed 
in Section 4.1.  Residual errors, ,itε and ,1it −ω , in (1) are jointly normally distributed.21 
 A key feature of the model is that the first and the third equations in (1) may be linked 
because the unobserved shock in ATTEMPT may negatively affect th e residual discount (i.e., 
(),, 1,0 −ρ= ε ω ≤it itcorr ).  The point is that shocks to the likelihood of an open-ending attempt 
may be observed by market participants and be pri ced so as to affect the discount.  An example 
                                                 
21 Note that we include in the estimation observations wher e the fund’s discount is negative even though such funds 
must be immune to attacks.  The reason we do not auto matically exclude those observations is that there is no 
theoretical cutoff discount level above which attacks become likely.  For example, a discount level of 0% is not a 
natural cutoff since funds with a 0.1% discount are probably as much immune to attacks as funds with a 0% 
discount.  As a result, our empirical strategy is to rely on the maximum likelihood function to trace out the predicted 
probability at each level of discount.  Fortunately, the parametric specification of the probit, which we use here, does 
not impose a linear relationship between the predicted proba bility and the covariates.  Hence, if funds with a low 
discount (including negative discounts) are empirically not subject to attacks, then the probit likelihood function will 
fit the data such that the predicted probabilities of attacks on such funds are arbitrarily close to zero.   
 
 17
of such a shock is the emergence of arbitrageurs that target CEFs of a pa rticular type.  Hence, 
identifying the system in (1) requires a set of instrumental variables. 
 We use three ,itZ  variables that enter the DISCOUNT equation but not the ATTEMPT 
equation.  First, we use DIV.  High dividends are expected to re duce the discount as they lead to 
partial liquidation of the fund.  The effect can be quite signifi cant given that dividends are 
expected to be paid over the entire future hor izon.  For arbitrageurs who attack the fund, 
however, taking the discount as given, the effect of  the dividend is very small, given that they 
only plan to hold the shares for a s hort period of time.  Second, we use LIFEBOAT.  As 
explained previously, a lifeboat is a commitment by the fund to remedial actions designed at 
narrowing the discount.  Discounts should fully re flect the potentia l effect(s) of lifeboats.  
Conditional on the discount, the ex istence of a lifeboat should not affect the probability of an 
attempt.  Third, we use the Fama -French small-minus-big factor ( SMB), which empirically 
commoves with the CEF discounts.  This comovement has several explanations, both behavioral 
(Lee, Shleifer, and Thaler (1991)), and rati onal (Cherkes, Sagi, and Stanton (2008) or 
Swaminathan (1996)).  For our purpose, it only  matters that activis ts care about the SMB factor 
only for its effect on discounts. 
The ,itX  variables include the other determinants of the discount reviewed in Section 4.1.  
We add a governance variable that we exp ect affects the probability of an attack.  GOV is an 
index (0-3) aggregated over the existence of a staggered boar d, supermajority voting, and the 
ability of the board to call a special meeting.  The higher the index, the worse is the firm’s 
governance structure (see Gomper s, Ishii, and Metrick (2003)). 22   We also add a variable 
NAVRET that captures the raw return on the NAV of  the fund.  This is because many activists 
mention a poor return on the funds’ assets as a trigger for the attack. 
The model in (1) falls within the general class of probit models  with an endogenous 
continuous variable.  It differs from a linear simultaneous system in that *ATTEMPT  is an 
unobserved latent variable.  As a resu lt, the two endogenous observed variables — ATTEMPT and 
DISCOUNT— cannot be solved as linear functions of the exogenous variables, and the 
conventional instrumental variable method does not  apply.  Two methods that have been used 
                                                 
22 According to Pound (1988), special meetings are used by managers to shorten the time for collecting proxies.   
 18
extensively in the labor economics literature are well-tailored for our model specification:  a two-
stage conditional maximum likelihood (2SC ML) method introduced by Rivers and Vuong 
(1988), and a full-information maximum likelihood (FIML) method applied in Evans, Oates, and 
Schwab (1992).  We have applied both methods and have obtained similar results.  We report 
those from the Rivers and Vuong (1988) method for its tractability and ease of interpretation.23   
To begin the estimation procedure, we rewrite Equation (1) as: 
 *
,, 1 , 1 , 1 ,it it it it itATTEMPT DISCOUNT X −−−=β +γ +θω +η  (2) 
where i,t i,t 1 i,t −ε= θ ω + η  is a linear projection of i,tε  onto i,t 1−ω , and i,tη  is orthogonal to all the 
other variables.  Equation (2) is estimated using a two-step procedure.  First, we estimate the 
DISCOUNT equation in Equation (1), as we did in Section 4.1, and retain the residuals i,t 1ˆ −ω .  
Second, we estimate Equation (2) using the probit method, where i,t 1−ω  is replaced with i,t 1ˆ −ω .24   
Table 4 reports the results on the determinan ts of open-ending attempts.  The dependent 
variable is a dummy for the occurrence of an op en-ending attempt at the fund-year level.  The 
mean of the dependent variable is  13.3% for all fund-year observations .  Reported coefficients 
are the un-scaled probit estimates fr om Equation (2) (and the associated t-statistics) and the 
change in the probability of an  open-ending attempt for a unit change in the covariates (as 
derived in Equation (5) in the ap pendix).  Separately reported are ˆθ (the coefficient on the 
residual discount in Equation (2)) and ˆρ  (the implied correlati on between the two error 
disturbances in Equation (1)). 
[Insert Table 4 Here] 
A simple regression of ATTEMPT on DISCOUNT shows that a one percentage point 
increase in the observed discount is associated  with a 0.66 percentage point increase in the 
probability of an open-ending attempt (column 1).  When accounting for the endogeneity of 
DISCOUNT—i.e., the effect of the po ssibility of future attemp ts on the residual discount—in  
column 2, the sensitivity of the probability to the discount increases substantially to 1.07.  
                                                 
23 Also see Rivers and Vuong (1988) for a discussion of their test in comparison with Heckman’s (1978) generalized 
two-stage simultaneous probit (G2SP) method.  Rivers and Vuong (1988) indicate that the two methods have similar 
asymptotic properties, but their method is easier to implement, and fares more favorably in limited samples. 
24 Additional technical details regarding the estimation methods are discussed in the Appendix. 
 19
Columns 3 and 4 add other covariates as controls.  These additional explanatory variables do not 
significantly change the effect of the discount on open-ending activities.  Columns 5 and 6 report 
results for the subsamples before and after the legal reform of 1992.  Note that the sensitivity of 
open-ending activities to the discount is strong er before the legal reform.  This is perhaps 
because open-ending attempts were difficult to launch before the reform, so only deeply 
discounted funds were targeted.  
The negative sign of ˆθ  reported at the bottom of Table 4 demonstrates that the discount 
shrinks in anticipation of the higher probability  of open-ending activities.  This creates a 
feedback loop between di scounts and open-ending attempts.  This negative feedback loop is 
significant in columns 2 and 5.  Before the legal reform of 1992, there were fewer open-ending 
attempts, and hence conditional on an attempt taking place, the probability of success was 
higher.  This provides the rationale for w hy the feedback loop was strong enough to be 
statistically significant mostly before the legal reform (column 5).25   
Interestingly, after controlling for the disc ount, the fund’s past-year NAV return is only 
marginally significant in explaining activists’ attempts.  Hence, poor return seems to affect such 
attempts only (or mostly) to the extent that it is  reflected in the discount.  In robustness analysis, 
we constructed measures of NAV return that control for benchmark returns or market factors, but 
it turns out that they have even lower power in explaining the attempts. 
 
4.2.3. Determinants of Open-Ending Attempts:  Communication and Governance 
 We now turn to analyze other determinants of open-ending attempts .  As we discussed 
before, the 1992 reform seems to have had a large effect on the volume of open-ending attempts.  
Columns 5 and 6 of Table 4 break the sample in to two sub-periods (all  regressors lag by one 
year):  1989-1993 (pre reform) and 1994-2003 (post reform). Other things equal, there is an 8.48 
(t-statistic = 3.58) percentage point increase in the probability of open-ending attempts during the 
second period.  Since the reform was design ed to lift barriers on communication among 
                                                 
25 The test of the feedback loop has low power because the residual discount also contains some exogenous 
components of DISCOUNT that are positivel y associated with ATTEMPT.  Therefore, finding a significantly 
negative sign for ˆθ  is strong evidence for a feedback loop.   
 20
shareholders, the time-series pattern suggests that  one important determin ant of attacks is the 
ease of communication. 
Clearly, the time-series pattern  does not uniquely identify th e effect of communication.  
The observed pattern could also  result from other changes th at occurred around 1993.  One 
possibility is the increase in the number of hedge funds engaged in op en-ending activities after 
1993.26  To further investigate the role of communication, Table 5 presents results using cross 
sectional measures of communication costs.   
[Insert Table 5 here] 
The first variable we consid er is share turnover.  High  turnover makes communication 
and coordination more difficult for two reasons (s ee Pound (1988)).  First, given the time lag at 
which account names become available to activists, the latter may not get up-to-date shareholder 
contacts at high turnover funds.  Second, there is  a gap of 10 to 60 days between the record date 
(which qualifies a shareholder to vote) and th e actual vote date.  Inve stors with short holding 
periods (corresponding to  high turnover) may ceas e to be shareholders by the voting date or 
expect to exit the fund soon, and thus lack the incentive to cast a careful vote.  Column 1 shows 
that after 1993, a 100 percentage point increase in the annual turnover rate is associated with a 6 
percentage point lower probability of an attack, si gnificant at the 10% level.  While this result 
identifies high turnover as an impediment to activ ism, it is commonly believed that this variable 
enhances market efficiency.  This is because high turnover improves liquidity, and can contribute 
to lower discount (see Table 2).  This ambivalent effect of liquidity is consistent with the models 
of Kahn and Winton (1998) and Bolton and von Thadden (1998). 
The second variable we use proxies for the average shareh older account size.  Holding 
the market value of a fund constant, the smal ler the average holding per account, the more 
shareholders an arbitrageur needs to pers uade to have enough su pport.  Accessing many 
shareholders and motivating them to act is logi stically difficult.  Direct information about 
individual account size is not readily available.  However, it is reasonable to assume that the size 
                                                 
26 The attempt to attribute the surge in open-ending activitie s solely to the increasing pr esence of hedge funds faces 
two main problems.  First, both number of hedge funds  and their assets saw smooth growth during our sample 
period, with no visible structural break at any point, including years around 1993.  (Information is obtained from 
Hedge Fund Research, Chicago.)  Second, open-ending ac tivities are highly concentrated among a handful of 
players, even in the latter part of our sample.    
 21
of a typical trade by an investor in a fund is a good proxy for his total holdings in the fund (see  
Battalio and Mendenhall (2005)).  Using the TAQ and ISSM data bases, we obtain the average 
trade size (in 1,000 shares) of a fund-year, and th e proportion of trades that are more than 2,000 
and 5,000 shares.  Columns 2 and 3 of Table 5 s how the effect of trad ing size on open-ending 
attempts.  In the post-1993 period,  every 1,000 share increase in the average trad ing size (the 
mean and standard deviation are 1,260 and 710 sh ares, respectively) is associated with a 5.6 
percentage point increase  in the probability of an attack.  Using the pr oportion of trades above 
2,000 shares (or 5,000, not tabulated ) yields similar results.  Thes e results are significant at less 
than 5%.   
The last variable we entertain is the percen tage of the fund’s shar es that are owned by 
institutional investors.  It is easier to locate and coordinate with instit utional shareholders since 
they are bigger and are required to disclose their quarterly owne rship.  We construct a dummy 
variable for institutional sh ares being greater than 15%. 27  To ensure that we are not capturing 
the holdings of the activists themselves with this variable, we exclude holdings by institutions 
that ever attacked the fund during our sample period.   Column 4 shows that the effect on the 
probability of an open-ending attempt after 1993 is 7.5 percentage points, significant at the 5% 
level.  Using the level of total institutional ownership (not reported) yields similar results.  
Overall, the evidence suggest s that the ease of communicati on among shareholders is an 
important factor in generating activist attacks against CEFs.  An important aspect of our results is 
that our measures explain open-ending attempts only after the 1992 reform.  Table 5 shows that 
the effect of the communication variables is insignificant in th e pre-reform subsample.  We 
conjecture that before the 1992 reform, communicat ion was so severely constrained by law that 
characteristics of the sharehol der base did not matter much for activist arbitrageurs.  These 
characteristics became significant only afte r the reform allowed various forms of 
communication.  The bottom of Table 5 reports the results of a test for whether the effect of 
communication is different between the two subsamples.  The results  indicate that the effect of 
                                                 
27 In a private interview, Phillip Goldstein said that he targets funds with more than 15% institutional ownership.   
 22
communication is indeed greater af ter the reform than before the reform.  The results, however, 
are only significant in two out of the four columns.28   
 There is a robustness issue in interpre ting the results regarding the effect of 
communication costs because these variables ar e affected by the attacks.  For example, 
institutions may know that a fund is being targeted and react by buying its shares.  To reduce this 
concern, our analysis uses measures of communi cation that lag the attack  by one year.  We also 
conducted a robustness check using a lag of two years.  The results are similar. 
 Another class of vari ables likely to affect activist arbitrageurs’ attacks against closed-end 
funds is governance vari ables.  Del Guercio, Dann, and Pa rtch (2003) show  that governance 
variables are important determinants for variou s decisions of CEF mana gements and boards.  
Using the GOV variable defined in Section 4.2.2, we  find (in Table 4) that after 1993, the 
addition of one of the three provisions in GOV (which makes governance more pro-management) 
is associated with an increase of about 5.1 pe rcentage points in the probability of an attempt 
(significant at the 5% level).  Moreover, funds with higher insider ownershi p invite more 
attempts after 1993 (significant at the 5% level).  Such relations were non-existent beforehand.  
Following Bebchuk, Coates, and Subramanian (2002) and Del Guercio, Dann, and Partch (2003), 
we also use a dummy variable fo r staggered board in place of GOV.  This specification (not 
tabulated) yields even stronger results:  the sample average incremental probability is 7.8% 
(significant at the 5% level). 29  This evidence echoes Choi’s (2000) finding that after the 1992 
reform, firms with stronger management en trenchment and more pro-manager governance 
became more frequent targets of shareholder proposals.  Our e xplanation is that communication 
among shareholders is particularly important when managers have more power in opposing 
dissidents.  Hence, activism against firms with pro-manager governance became more prominent 
after the 1992 reform.    Intere stingly, although high fees may al so point to bad governance, we 
find that high-fee funds are overall less susceptibl e to attacks in the post -reform era (significant 
                                                 
28 The reason for the lower significance he re is that the insignificance of the ef fect of communication on attacks in 
the pre-reform period is associated w ith high standard errors, which inflate th e standard errors of the difference 
statistics.  Hence, the significance of the difference statistics is lower than that of the post-reform coefficients. 
29 There might be an endogeneity problem as funds that anticipate higher probability of activist attacks are more 
likely to add governance provisions.  To alleviate this concern, we conducted a robustness test, in which we included 
only the funds that did not change their governance in the analysis.  The results remained qualitatively the same.     
 23
at the 10% level).  We do not have a good explan ation for why this variable behaves differently 
than the other governance variables. 
 
4.2.4. Determinants of Successes of Open-Ending Attempts     
We now turn to an analysis of the determin ants of the success of  open-ending attempts.  
Table 6 Panel A repeats the same analysis conducted in Table 4, except we replace the dependent 
variable with a dummy variable for actual open-endings.  We find a strong dual relation between 
actual open-endings and fund disco unts prior to the attempts.  Wh ile a higher discount level is 
associated with higher likelihood that the fund w ill be open-ended, the prospects of open-ending 
shrink the discount.  In equilibrium, a one percenta ge point increase in the discount is associated 
with a 0.11 percentage point incr ease in the probability of open- ending (column 1 of Panel A).  
After incorporating the feedback loop, this se nsitivity increases to 0.29 percentage points 
(column 2 of Panel A).  Compared  to Table 4, the results in Pa nel A of Table 6 show a stronger 
effect of actual open-endings on discounts.  This is intuitive as ex-post successful attacks are 
probably ex-ante more powerful and thus have a stronger effect on market prices.   
[Insert Panel A of Table 6 here.] 
An interesting observation reflected in Panel A is that successful  open–ending attempts 
are not easy to predict based on observables, especially during the post-reform period. Indeed, 
the goodness-of-fit measures are modest.  This is consistent with an equilibrium where activists 
profit from their activities because the market cannot predict them (Maug (1998)).   
 Defining “success” as the eventual open-endi ng of a closed-end fund, while natural and 
intuitive, does not accurately characterize the complicated outcomes of open-ending attempts.  
First, while in some cases funds  are open-ended within the same year of the attempt, in other 
cases open-ending takes much longer.  Such cases are not as successful because the arbitrageurs 
need to commit more of their capital and time and hence real ize lower profits.  Second, 
arbitrageurs can also profit from their open-ending attempts when the fund remains closed.  This 
happens when the discount shrinks as a result of the attack, for example, if the fund management 
takes actions to suppress the discount.  We a ddress these features w ith a duration-to-success 
model.   
 24
 Using the language of a duration analysis, we say that a “spell” starts when an attack 
occurs.  The initial conditions are the funds’ characteristics just before the attack.  If the attempt 
does not succeed by the end of our sample period (that is, by 2003), the duration of the spell is 
treated as being censored on the right end.  Alternatively, if the attempt succeeds at a time within 
our sample period, the attempt-to-success durati on is recorded without censoring.  Combining 
both types of observations, we get the following log-likelihood function for duration: 
 ln( ) ( | ) ln ( | )
uncensored spells all spells
Lh t x S t x=+ ∑ ∑  (3) 
In Equation (3), h is the baseline hazard function, wh ere we adopt the most commonly 
used Weibull distribution: [ ]
1
exp( ) exp( )hx t x
θ−
=− β θ ⋅− β ; t is the time from the start of an attempt; 
S is the survival function:  exp( )Sh t=− ⋅ .  All covariates x are measured at the time an attempt 
starts (the discount is measur ed at the end of the previous  period).  The coefficients ˆβ  (vector) 
and ˆθ  (scalar) are estimable using the maximum likelihood estimation method.   We are 
interested in the effect of the x variables on the duration of attempts.  A positive coefficient 
means that a higher value of the covariate is associated with lower success rates for the activist 
attempt (as it takes longer to achieve the goal).  
 Panel B of Table 6 provides the results from estimating Equation (3).  The reported 
coefficients are ˆˆ and θβ .  In columns (1) and (2), the measur e of success is narrowly defined as 
actual open-endings.  In columns (3) and (4), su ccess is more broadly defined as either open-
ending or near disappearance of the discount (i.e., the discount dropped to below 5%).   
[Insert Panel B of Table 6 here] 
 We find several results that demonstrate how  entrenched management is better able to 
defend against activists’ attacks.  First, older, established funds take significantly longer to be 
open-ended.30   Second, our GOV variable is a direct measure of managerial entrenchment.  
Column (1) indicates that high GOV is indeed associated with longer duration (t-statistic = 1.94).   
Among the components of GOV, staggered board has the most intuitive effect on duration:  in 
order to have absolute control of the board, activists need to win proxy fights in at least two 
annual elections if the fund has a staggered board.  In Column (2), we replace GOV with a 
                                                 
30 While it is true that a fund gets to an older age because  it survived attacks, our resu lts go further in that the 
“instantaneous hazard” conditional on the fund’s surviving to the current date is also negatively related to age.   
 25
dummy variable for staggered board alone (STAGBOARD).  The coefficient is now strengthened 
(t-statistic = 2.22).  Our calculations of the economic effect show that the presence of a staggered 
board increases the time to open-ending (starting from the occurrence of an attempt) by almost 3 
years.  Third, we see that INSIDER, which captures the management’s voting power, is 
significantly positively related to duration.   
 Columns (3) and (4) broaden the definition of “successful attempt” to either open-ending, 
or shrinkage of the discount to below 5%.  The reported results are overall consistent with those 
in the first two columns, but are noisier.  This  is not surprising given that a reduction in the 
discount could be due to events unrelated to activism.   
Finally, note that the discount is slightly positively related to the time to success.  It might 
seem paradoxical that a higher discount does not make it easier for arbitrageurs to succeed.  
Given our earlier discussion on the feedback effect, however, the correct interpretation is that the 
discount already reflects the prospect of a successful attempt.31 
 
5.  Concluding Remarks 
In this paper, we document strong and frequent  attempts by activist arbitrageurs to open-
end closed-end funds in the wake of the SE C’s proxy reform in 1992.  We find a dual 
relationship between activist arbi trageurs’ activities and funds’ di scounts.  On the one hand, 
activists tend to target deeply discounted funds.  On the other hand, funds’ discounts reflect such 
activity in a forward-looking way and shrink when an attack is expected.  Following an attack, 
the discount shrinks further or completely disapp ears (if the fund is open-ended), so that overall 
activist arbitrage is found to have a substant ial effect on CEF discounts.  Aside from the 
discount, the ability of shareholders to commu nicate and coordinate with each other and the 
governance of the fund are found to be important factors in determining which funds are being 
targeted.  Our work shows that activist arbitr age is an important activity undertaken by market 
participants to eliminate the difference between ma rket prices and potential security values.  In 
the remainder of this section, we draw some broad implications from our work to several fields. 
                                                 
31 At this stage there is no powerful ec onometric method to identify the feedback or anticipation effect in duration 
models (see a recent discussion by Abbring and van den Berg (2003)). 
 26
Source of CEF Discounts:   One of the biggest puzzles in the CEF literature (with broad 
implications to financial economics) is the sour ce of the discount.  The two main hypotheses in 
the literature link discounts to irrational misp ricing (Lee, Shleifer, and Thaler (1991)) or to 
agency problems (Barclay, Holderness and P ontiff (1993), Ross (2002) , Berk and Stanton 
(2007), and Cherkes, Sagi and Stanton (2008)).  Our study offers suggestive evidence that 
agency problems play at least some role in the emergence of CEF discounts.  First, we show that 
activist arbitrageurs consider gov ernance variables when selecting their targets.  Second, in the 
vast majority of events in our sample, discounts  fall after managers take corrective actions such 
as a share repurchase, dividend increase, or change in investment advisors.   
Limits to Arbitrage:  The persistence of CEF discounts is often used to demonstrate the 
presence of the limits to arbitrage in financ ial markets (see Lee Shle ifer and Thaler (1991), 
Pontiff (1996), and Gemmill and Thomas (2002)).  A large body of literature has pointed out 
various market frictions that contribute to su ch limits.  Our work shows that the costs of 
communication and coordination—imposed by la w, ownership structur e, or the trading 
environment of funds—can also be  viewed as limits to arbitrage since they inte rfere with the 
work of activist arbitrageurs.  Importantly, our work also has indirect implications for pure-
trading arbitrage, given that wit hout the work of activist arbitrag eurs there is no guarantee that 
CEF share prices will ever converge to the NAVs, and thus the profit from pure-trading arbitrage 
becomes more uncertain.   
The 1992 Proxy Reform:  The evidence presented in this paper strongly suggests that 
the proxy reform implemented by the SEC in 1992 had a major effect on closed-end funds.  
Measuring the value created by open-ending a ttempts based on the decrease in discount 
following attempts, we calculate that the reform created $124 million per year to CEF 
shareholders.  Adjusting for mean reversion in discounts (as we did in columns 4 and 8 of Table 
3), the estimated value created by the reform to CEF shareholders amounts to $32 million per 
year.  The only other paper of wh ich we are aware that tries to quantify the effects of the proxy 
reform of 1992 is by Choi (2000).  Using a mu ch smaller sample of shareholder proposals in 
regular corporations, he does not find any real effect of the 1992 reform.   
Feedback Loops in Financial Markets:  A basic feature of the interaction between 
financial markets and corporate finance is that  market prices affect and reflect corporate 
 27
activities simultaneously.  As we argued above, CEF discounts attract activ ist arbitrageurs, but 
these discounts shrink in anticipation of an activis t arbitrageurs’ attack.  This negative feedback 
loop has many interesting implications; most of them have not yet been explored in the literature.  
For example, the fact that market prices reflect  anticipated activist attacks creates a disincentive 
to engage in activist arbitrage.  This is because the decrease in the discount that results from the 
anticipation effect reduces the profit from open-ending the fund.32 The econometric methodology 
that we use in this paper to disentangle the two effects is new in corporate finance, and could be 
used in future research for settings that feature a similar feedback loop. 
                                                 
32 Some theoretical implications of the negative feedback loop between financial markets and corporate activities are 
explored in a recent paper by Bond, Goldstein, and Prescott (2008). 
 28
REFERENCES 
Abbring, Jaap, and Gerard van den Berg, “The  Nonparametric Treatment Effects in Duration 
Models,” Econometrica, 71 (2003), 1491-1517. 
Barclay, Michael, Clifford Holderness, and Je ffrey Pontiff, “Private  Benefits from Block 
Ownership and Discounts on Closed-End Funds,” Journal of Financial Economics , 33 
(1993), 263–291. 
Battalio, Robert, and Richard Me ndenhall, “Earnings Expectations, Investor Trade Size, and 
Anomalous Returns around Earnings Announcements,” Journal of Financial Economics, 
77 (2005), 289-320. 
Bebchuk, Lucian, John Coates, a nd Guhan Subramanian, “The Powerful Antitakeover Force of 
Staggered Boards:  Theory, Evidence, and Policy,” Stanford Law Review, 54, (2002), 
887-951. 
Berk, Jonathan, and Richard Stanton, “Manager ial Ability, Compensation, and the Closed-End 
Fund Discount,” Journal of Finance, 62 (2007), 529-556. 
Bolton, Patrick, and Ernst-Lugwig von Thadden,  “Blocks, Liquidity, and Corporate Control,” 
Journal of Finance, 53 (1998), 1-25. 
Bond, Philip, Itay Goldstein, and Edward Simpson Prescott, “Market-Based Corrective Actions,” 
working paper, University of Pennsylvania (2008). 
Brauer, Greggory, “Open-E nding Closed-End Funds,” Journal of Financial Economics 13 
(1984), 491–507. 
Brauer, Greggory, “Closed-End Fund Shares’ Abnormal Returns and the Information Content of 
Discounts and Premiums, Journal of Finance 43 (1988), 113–127. 
Brickley, James, and James Schallheim, “Lifti ng the Lid on Closed-End Investment companies: 
A Case of Abnormal Returns,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 20 (1985), 
107-117. 
Cherkes, Martin, Jacob Sagi, and Richard Stant on, “A Liquidity-Based Theory of Closed-End 
Funds,” Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming (2008). 
 29
Choi, Stephen, “Proxy Issue Proposals:  Impact of the 1992 SEC Proxy Reform,” Journal of 
Law, Economics, and Organization, 16 (2000), 233-268. 
Del Guercio, Diane, Larry Dann, and M.  Megan Partch, "Governance and Boards of Directors in 
Closed-end Investment Companies," Journal of Financial Economics , 69 (2003), 111-
152. 
Dimson, Elroy, and Caroli na Minio-Kozerski, “Close-End Funds:  A Survey,” Financial 
Markets, Institutions & Instruments, 9 (1999), 1-41. 
Evans, William, Wallace Oates, and Robert Sc hwab, “Measuring Peer Group Effects:  A Study 
of Teenage Behavior,” Journal of Political Economy, 100 (1992), 966-991. 
Gemmill, Gorden, and Dylon Thomas, “Noise Trading, Costly Arbitrage, and Asset Prices:  
Evidence from Close-End Funds,” Journal of Finance, 57 (2002), 2571-2494. 
Gillan, Stuart, and Laura Starks, “The Evolution of Shareholder Activism in the United States,” 
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 19 (2007), 55-73. 
Gompers, Paul, Joy Ishii, and Andrew Metrick, “Corporate G overnance and Equity Prices,” 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 118 (2003), 107-155. 
Greenwood, Robin, and Michael Schor, “Investor Activism and Takeovers,” Journal of 
Financial Economics, forthcoming (2008). 
Heckman, James, “Dummy Endogenous Variab les in a Simultaneous Equation System,” 
Econometrica, 46 (1978), 931-959. 
Kahn, Charles, and Andrew Winton, “Ownersh ip Structure, Speculation, and Shareholder 
Intervention,” Journal of Finance, 53 (1998), 99-129. 
Lee, Charles, Andrei Shleifer, and Richard Thaler, “Investor Sentiment and the Closed-End Fund 
Puzzle,” Journal of Finance 46 (1991), 75–109. 
Lesmond, David, Joseph Ogden and Charles Trzci nka, "A New Measure of  Total Transactions 
Costs," Review of Financial Studies, 12 (1999), 1113-1141. 
Malkiel, Burton, “The Valuation of Cl osed-End Investment Company Shares,” Journal of 
Finance 32 (1977), 847–859. 
 30
Maug, Ernst, “Large Shareholders as Monitors : Is There a Trade-Off between Liquidity and 
Control?” Journal of Finance, 53 (1998), 65-98. 
Pastor, Lubos and Robert Stambaugh, "Liqui dity Risk and Expected Stock Returns." Journal of 
Political Economy, 111 (2003), 642-85. 
Pontiff, Jeffrey, "Closed-End Fund Premia a nd Returns Implications for Financial Market 
Equilibrium," Journal of Financial Economics, 37 (1995), 341-370. 
Pontiff, Jeffrey, “Costly Arbitrage:  Evidence from Close-End Funds,” Quarterly Journal of 
Economics, 111 (1996), 1135-1151. 
Pontiff, Jeffrey, “Costly Arbitrage and the Myth  of Idiosyncratic Risk,”  Journal of Accounting 
and Economics, 42 (2006), 35-52. 
Pound, John, “Proxy Contests and the E fficiency of Share holder Oversight,” Journal of 
Financial Economics, 20 (1988), 237-265. 
Pound, John, “Proxy Voting and th e SEC:  Investor Protection versus Market Efficiency,” 
Journal of Financial Economics, 29 (1991), 241-285. 
Rivers, Douglas, and Quang Vuong, “Limited Info rmation Estimators and Exogeneity Tests for 
Simultaneous Probit Models,” Journal of Econometrics, 39 (1988), 347-366. 
Ross, Stephen, “Neoclassical Finance, Alternative Finance and the Closed-End Fund Puzzle,” 
European Financial Management, 8 (2002), 129-137. 
Swaminathan, Bhaskaran, “Time-Varying Expe cted Small Firm Returns and Closed-End Fund 
Discounts,” Review of Financial Studies, 9 (1996), 845-887. 
Thompson, Rex, “The Information Content of  Discounts and Premiums of Closed-End Fund 
Shares,” Journal of Financial Economics, 6 (1978), 151-186. 
Wooldridge, Jeffrey, Econometric Analysis of Cross Section and Panel Data, 2003, MA:  MIT 
Press.   
 31
Appendix: 
Several comments regarding the execution of the estimation method (1)- (2) are in order.  
First, as a feature of probit analysis, the estim ation of Equation (2) identifies the coefficients 
{}/, /, /ηηηβσ γσθσ  up to scale.  It has been a conve ntion to report probit estimates by 
normalizing the variance of the disturbance term ε to be unit.  Given that ()
22 2 1ηεσ=− ρσ , we 
need to rescale the co efficients from (2) by 21/ 1 −ρ  to obtain the coefficients in the original 
system (1).  Second, though i,t 1ˆ −ω  enters equation (2) for estima tion, it is not a conventional 
covariate as the X variables in the same equation.  More specially, i,t 1ˆ −ω  is not a “determinant” of 
an attempt, and the coefficient in front of i,t 1ˆ −ω  should not be interpreted as the partial effect of a 
unit change of the residual discount on the propensity of  an attempt.  In fact, i,t 1ˆ −ω  should be 
integrated out to obtain consistent estimates of { },βγ in the original system (1). Third, the probit 
coefficients are not of direct in terest to researchers.  The inte resting parameters are the average 
partial effects (APE) of the covariates, that is , the average effect of a unit change in the 
covariates on the incremental probability of an attempt.   
As a result of these considera tions, we compute the parameters { },βγ   with ˆω integrated 
out, which are related to those from (2) by a scaling factor: 33 
 () () () ()
1/2 1/2
22 22
22
22
ˆˆˆˆˆ ˆˆ ˆ/1 1 ; /1 1 ˆˆ11
ωω
⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤⎛⎞ ⎛⎞θσ θσ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎜⎟ ⎜⎟β = β− ρ+ γ = γ− ρ+⎜⎟ ⎜⎟ −ρ −ρ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎝⎠ ⎝⎠⎣ ⎦⎣ ⎦
   (4) 
They serve to compute the sample analogue of the average partial effects of the covariates: 
 
() ( )
() ()
/
/
E DISCOUNT X DISCOUNT E DISCOUNT X
E DISCOUNT X X E DISCOUNT X
⎡⎤ ⎡ ⎤∂Φ β +γ ∂ = βφ β +γ⎣⎦ ⎣ ⎦
⎡⎤ ⎡ ⎤∂Φ β +γ ∂ = γφ β +γ⎣⎦ ⎣ ⎦
  
  
 (5) 
                                                 
33 The derivation is standard.  See, for example, Wooldridge (2003), chapter 15 “Discrete Response Models”.   
 
32 
 
Table 1.  Summary Statistics 
Panel A:  Fund Characteristics over 1988-2002 
 
This panel reports summary statistics for 142 closed-end funds ov er the sample period 1988-2002. The first two rows provide the  number of funds 
in operation in each year and the percentage  of funds that trade at a discount.  Each of the next three-row blocks provides the  sample mean, 
median, and standard deviation, respectively, of the indicated fund characteristic variable. F und discount is defined as (NAV-P )/NAV. Market 
capitalization is the product of fund share price and number of shares outstanding. Annual turnover is the ratio of fund shares  traded to total shares 
outstanding. Dividend yield is the ratio of dividend payout to fund share price. Insider ownership is the proportion of fund sh ares owned by 
insiders. Institutional ownership is the proportion of fund shares ow ned by institutions. Fund age is number of years since the  first listing date on 
CRSP. Average trade size is the number of shares traded in a si ngle transaction averaged over all trades in a given year.  Stan dard deviations of 
monthly returns in a given year are calculated for both the underlying assets (NAV) and the fund shares. NAV return is defined as the percentage 
change in NAV values plus dividend paid, scaled by the beginning of period NAV. 
  
  1988  1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995  1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 
Number of funds 53  62  82  84  92  99  123  122  123  121  113  111  102  95  89  
% trading at a discount 81 79 83 79 68 55 71 78 86 83 82 89 92 86 88 
% of funds under attack 0.0 16.1 6.1 3.6 3.3 3.0 2.4 9.8 12.1 18.9 22.8 27.4 26.9 19.2 32.6 
% market cap of funds under attack 0.0 7.2 3.5 2.4 7.5 5.6 2.2 16.2 11.6 25.6 26.0 13.0 15.1 13.1 17.7 
                                
Fund discount (%) 14.0 9.7 10.2 8.0 5.6 1.8 6.0 11.2 13.0 13.5 13.6 16.3 23.0 15.4 13.3 
20.2 12.5 11.5 8.8 5.8 1.8 6.3 12.8 15.2 15.9 18.1 19.1 23.6 17.4 14.2 
 17.7 17.7 11.6 12.3 10.4 11.7 11.0 12.2 11.3 12.2 16.1 15.9 16.1 14.4 15.4 
                                
Market capitalization  ($Million) 159 177 155 170 177 194 220 212 229 255 239 248 267 247 222 
69 88 85 93 98 111 133 121 125 136 105 101 123 101 102 
 228 234 210 245 270 276 271 277 303 349 401 448 453 435 376 
                                
Annual turnover (%) 60 116 95 76 80 110 102 87 87 102 96 84 78 54 50 
49 57 67 59 64 92 86 79 85 96 92 80 69 48 44 
  50 171 73 77 57 108 65 47 38 56 49 45 44 28 31 
                                
Dividend yield (%) 3.1  4.0  3.5  4.0  3.1  2.1  2.0  1.8  2.3  2.4  3.4  2.9  3.4  3.4  2.9  
2.6  3.3  2.4  2.7  1.8  0.8  0.9  0.6  1.2  0.9  1.0  0.9  1.1  1.3  1.3  
  3.3  3.6  3.7  3.8  3.5  3.0  2.8  2.9  3.0  3.8  5.3  4.1  5.1  4.8  4.5  
 
33 
 
  1988  1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995  1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 
                
                                
Insider ownership (%) 1.0  1.7  1.7  4.5  2.3  2.6  1.6  3.9  2.5  2.9  1.6  6.8  4.3  7.6  7.6  
0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.3  0.0  0.7  0.4  
 1.8  3.2  4.8  12.5  6.5  9.2  7.7  15.4  9.5  10.5  4.0  11.9  9.5  12.5  14.7 
                                
Institution ownership (%) 
(excluding activists’ stake) 
12.1 13.4 11.0 13.3 12.8 12.8 10.8 12.2 13.1 12.1 12.5 13.6 14.3 16.1 18.3 
6.6 8.0 6.5 8.6 9.1 9.9 8.7 10.5 10.5 10.5 11.1 10.9 12.4 14.3 16.0 
  12.3 13.1 11.3 14.7 12.6 10.8 9.7 8.9 9.7 12.3 13.9 12.8 14.3 14.8 14.8 
                                
Fund age (year) 7 7 6 6 6 7 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 14 15 
2 2 3 3 3 4 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
  13 12 11 11 11 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 11 11 11 
                                
Average trade size (1,000 shares) 1.4 1.6 1.8 1.3 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.1 
 1.1 1.4 1.3 1.1 0.9 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.0 
  1.0 0.9 1.7 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7 
                                
Standard deviation of monthly  
fund NAV (in %) 
4.3 3.3 3.2 3.3 3.7 3.8 4.0 4.2 4.3 4.4 5.0 5.8 6.2 5.7 4.8 
3.1 2.4 2.4 2.6 2.8 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.8 3.6 4.4 5.2 5.7 5.3 4.3 
 2.6 2.3 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.7 2.9 2.7 2.4 2.7 3.1 3.4 3.1 2.6 
                                
Standard deviation of monthly  
fund return (in %) 
4.9 5.4 6.4 6.2 6.2 5.9 6.5 5.9 5.8 5.8 6.2 6.2 6.7 6.6 6.4 
4.2 4.5 4.7 4.8 5.0 5.4 5.9 5.2 5.4 5.3 5.9 6.0 6.3 6.1 6.0 
 2.7 2.8 3.7 3.4 3.1 3.0 3.1 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.7 3.0 3.1 2.9 
                
NAV return  (in %) 7.8 20.3 -14.2 18.6 -2.1 29.2 -9.1 4.7 8.4 -2.4 -5.4 38.2 -19.5 -12.4 -14.0
4.3 16.2 -11.2 11.3 -2.7 24.9 -7.3 3.4 9.9 2.4 -4.8 29.5 -19.8 -14.2 -14.3
 10.3 20.3 14.7 26.6 17.1 31.1 18.3 23.6 18.3 28.7 32.7 49.8 21.7 17.3 19.8 
 
 
34 
 
Panel B: Fund Policies 
 
This panel reports the mean values of the policy vari ables over different sub-periods and separately for 
old and new funds.  All of the variables except manage ment fees are dummy variables equal to one if the 
provision exists.  A staggered board is one in whic h directors are classified into difference classes and 
serve overlapping terms.  Supermajority requires su permajority votes out of outstanding shares for open-
ending.  Special meeting means that the management has the right to call special meetings to discuss/vote 
on dissidents’ proposals.  Lifeboat is a provision fo r remedial actions (including converting to an open-
end fund) when discount persists beyond certain thres hold for certain length of period.  Management fees 
are calculated as fees over total net asset values. Standa rd deviations are reported in parentheses.  A fund 
is counted as an Old (New) fund if it has existed in our  sample for more than (less than or equal to) three 
years in the year of calculation.  
 
 1988-2002  1988-1992  1993-1998  1999-2002  
 All Funds Old Funds New Funds Old Funds New Funds Old Funds New Funds
        
Staggered board 0.38 0.09 0.03 0.42 0.30 0.67 0.47 
Supermajority 0.14 0.09 0.20 0.17 0.08 0.14 0.00 
Special meeting 0.60 0.70 0.56 0.63 0.52 0.58 0.67 
Lifeboat 0.53 0.44 0.57 0.54 0.54 0.52 0.60 
Management fees 1.79 1.45 2.01 1.62 2.03 1.90 2.22 
  (0.90) (0.58) (0.61) (0 .86) (0.71) (1 .06) (0.49) 
 
 
35 
 
Table 2.  Cross-Sectional Determinants of Closed-End Fund Discounts 
 
The dependent variable is fund discount (DISCOUNT)  in percentage points by firm-year observations.  
The first column reports estimates from a pooled regr ession with year fixed effects; the second column 
reports the results from a Fama-MacBeth regression, and the third column reports the results of a pooled 
regression without year fixed effects.  MV is log market capitalization.  P is log market price.  STDNAV 
is the residual standard deviation from a regressi on of monthly NAV returns on the Fama-French three 
factors, the momentum factor, and two international indi ces factors.  AGE is fund ag e in years.  TO is the 
annual turnover rate (in percentage points) of a fund ’s shares.  DIV is the annualized dividend yield in 
percentage points.  FEES is the ma nagement fees as percentage of net assets value.  INSIDER is the 
ownership share of insiders in percentage points.  LIFEBOAT is a dummy variable for the existence of a 
lifeboat provision (see definition in Table 1 Panel B).  SMB is the Fama-French small-minus-big annual 
returns.  Bold fonts represent statis tical significance at less than the 5% level.  In pooled regressions, 
standard errors adjust for autocorrelation using the Newey-West method with half-window width equal to 
4 years.  In Fama-MacBeth regressions, standard errors  adjust for autocorrelation of all orders assuming 
an AR(1) process of the time-series coefficient estimates.  The number of observations is 1,477.  * and ** 
indicate significance at the 10% and 5% levels. 
 
 
  (1) (2) (3) 
  Year Fixed Effects Fama-MacBeth Pooled 
    
MV 0.828 0.404 0.814 
 (1.08) (0.49) (1.06) 
P -2.962** -3.561 ** -4.041 ** 
 -(2.49) -(1.97) -(3.37) 
STDNAV -0.760** -0.637 ** 0.494 
 -(2.80) -(2.35) (0.39) 
AGE -0.094* -0.055 -0.011 
 -(1.74) -(0.45) -(0.23) 
TO -0.021** -0.005 -0.037** 
 -(2.65) -(0.54) -(4.96) 
DIV -0.499** -0.422 ** -0.323 ** 
 -(3.53) -(2.64) -(2.46) 
FEES 0.735 0.714 0.590 
 (0.52) (0.97) (0.40) 
INSIDER 0.101* 0.110 ** 0.092 
 (1.71) (4.61) (1.56) 
LIFEBOAT -1.843 -1.394** -1.702 
 -(1.59) -(2.96) -(1.36) 
SMB -- -- -0.107** 
 -- -- -(2.85) 
CNST 17.515* 20.281 * 14.749 
 (1.81) (1.88) (1.50) 
    
Rsqr 0.182 -- 0.070 
 
36 
 
Table 3.  Closed-End Fund Discounts around Open-Ending Attacks:  Event Study 
This table reports the average discount of all funds subject to open-ending attempts in the seven event-time years from three y ears before 
attempts (t-3) to three years afterwards (t+3), standard errors for the average are also reported.   In the left four columns (1 , 2, 5, and 6, “All 
Sample”), funds are counted as zero discount funds after they are ope n-ended.  In the right four columns (3, 4, 7, and 8, “Surv iving Sample”), 
funds drop out of the sample after being op en-ended.  In “Unadjusted” columns (1 and 5), discounts are expressed in their raw l evels.  In “Adj. for 
Year Fixed Effect” columns (2 and 4), discounts are demeaned from average discount of all funds in our sample (including funds not under attack) 
in the same year.  In “Adj. for Fund Historical” columns (5 and 7), discounts are reported in excess of their own historical le vel measured as the in 
sample average through event year t-4.  In “Adj. for Matched Funds” columns (6 and 8), discount s are subtracted  from the averag e discounts of 
matched funds, where the latter are those that experience no open- ending attempts during the [t-3,t +3] window and have very sim ilar levels of 
discounts in year t-2 (within 90% and 110% of the discounts of the event funds).  The total number of events is 127. 
 
  All Sample Surviving Sample 
 (1) Unadjusted  (2) Adj. for Year Fixed Effect  (5) Unadjusted  (6) Adj. for Year Fixed Effect  
Year Avg Std Err Avg Std Er r Avg Std Err Avg Std Err 
t-3 18.34 1.12 6.20 1.01 18.34 1.12 6.20 1.01 
t-2 21.20 1.23 6.88 1.09 21.20 1.23 6.88 1.09 
t-1 19.82 1.07 6.03 1.05 19.82 1.07 6.03 1.05 
Attempt 14.46 1.15 0.27 1.14 14.46 1.15 0.27 1.14 
t+1 8.42 1.00 -4.19 1.03 14.41 1.34 2.39 1.19 
t+2 7.33 1.12 -3.30 0.99 12.58 1.69 2.18 1.37 
t+3 5.61 0.92 -3.57 0.89 9.59 1.43 1.36 1.18 
 (3) Adj. for Fund Historical  (4) Adj. for Matched Funds  (7) Adj. Fund Historical  (8) Adj. for Matched Funds  
Year Avg Std Err Avg Std Er r Avg Std Err Avg Std Err 
t-3 7.78 1.11 4.27 0.66 7.78 1.11 4.27 0.66 
t-2 10.80 1.27 0.04 0.07 10.80 1.27 0.04 0.07 
t-1 8.87 1.23 -0.49 0.70 8.87 1.23 -0.49 0.70 
Attempt 3.81 1.44 -5.27 0.93 3.81 1.44 -5.27 0.93 
t+1 -1.86 1.32 -10.78 1.38 3.70 1.57 -3.36 1.34 
t+2 -2.92 1.50 -8.99 1.41 1.80 2.14 -0.21 1.59 
t+3 -4.38 1.27 -8.41 1.65 -0.72 1.85 2.07 1.92 
 
37 
 
Table 4.  Determinants of Open-Ending Attempts 
This table reports results from estimating the first equa tion of system (1).  The dependent variable is the 
occurrence of open-ending attempts at the fund-year  level.  All regressors are lagged for one year.  MV, 
STDNAV, AGE, TO, FEES , and INSIDER are defined in Table 2.  DISCOUNT is the fund discount in 
percentage points. GOV is the sum of three indicator variables:   staggered board, supermajority vote, and 
special meetings as defined in Table 1 Panel B.  NAVRET is the fund’s NAV return as defined in Table 1 
Panel A.  Columns (1) and (3) report one-stage probit est imates without adjusting for the feedback effect.  
Columns (2), (4), (5), and (6) appl y the two-stage estimation, with th e additional exogeneity test reported 
below the regressions.  Reported for each covariate are the un-scaled probit coefficient (in bold fonts), the 
t-statistics (in parenthesis), and the sample averag e incremental probability for a unit change in the 
covariate (in percentage points).  In columns (2), (4), (5), and (6), the incremental probabilities also 
integrate out the variation of RESIDUALDISC (the residual from the second equation of (1)).  In the 
exogeneity tests, reported are the θ  estimate (the loading of RESIDUALDISC in the ATTEMPT equation), 
its t-statistics, and the implied ρ  value (the correlation coefficient of the two error disturbances in (1).  * 
and ** indicate significance at the 10% and 5% levels. 
 
  Full Sample  1989-1993  1994-2003  
  1  2  3  4  5  6  
DISCOUNT 0.034** 0.054 ** 0.041 ** 0.053 ** 0.184 ** 0.034 ** 
 (9.53) (7.03) (9.15) (5.55) (3.53) (3.45) 
 0.66% 1.07% 0.77% 1.03% 2.43% 0.71% 
LN(MV) -- -- -0.033 -0.025 0.785 ** -0.075 
 -- -- -(0.62) -(0.48) (3.25) -(1.33) 
 -- -- -0.61% -0.49% 10.39% -1.57% 
STDNAV -- -- -0.001 0.000 -0.003 -0.003 
 -- -- -(0.06) -(0.02) -(0.03) -(0.13) 
 -- -- -0.02% -0.01% -0.03% -0.06% 
AGE -- -- 0.027 0.020 -0.175 -0.042 
 -- -- (0.40) (0.30) -(1.00) -(0.50) 
 -- -- 0.52% 0.39% -2.32% -0.89% 
TO -- -- -0.002 -0.001 0.002 -0.003 * 
 -- -- -(1.44) -(1.08) (0.57) -(1.83) 
   -0.03% -0.03% 0.03% -0.06% 
FEES -- -- -0.076 -0.085 0.169 -0.139 * 
 -- -- -(1.13) -(1.25) (0.60) -(1.74) 
 -- -- -1.44% -1.65% 2.23% -2.91% 
GOV -- -- 0.209 ** 0.185 ** -0.831 ** 0.241 ** 
 -- -- (3.71) (3.15) -(3.03) (3.90) 
   3.95% 3.58% -11.00% 5.06% 
INSIDER -- -- 0.006 0.005 -0.034 0.010 ** 
 -- -- (1.32) (1.16) -(1.58) (2.09) 
 -- -- 0.11% 0.10% -0.45% 0.21% 
NAVRET   -0.002 -0.004 * -0.016 * -0.002 
   -(1.29) -(1.74) -(1.79) -(0.68) 
   -0.05% -0.07% -0.21% -0.03% 
Exogeneity Test:             
ˆθ  -- -0.025 ** -- -0.015 -0.120 ** 0.001 
 -- -(2.97) -- -(1.47) -(2.24) (0.09) 
Implied ˆρ  -- -0.312 -- -0.182 -0.689 0.012 
NOB 1445 1445 1445 1445 367 1078 
Goodness of Fit 0.096 0.104 0.132 0.134 0.206 0.141 
 
38 
 
Table 5:  Effects of Shareholder Communication 
 
The dependent variable is the occurrence of an open-ending attemp t at the fund-year level.  All regressors are the same as in T able 4 columns (5) 
and (6) except that each column uses a diffe rent proxy for shareholder communication ( COMMUNICATION).  The default measure is turnover in 
Column 1 (repeated from Columns 5 and 6 in Table 4).  Columns 2 and 3 use the average trade size (in 1,000 shares) and the prop ortion of trades 
that are more than 2,000 shares (in percentage points).  Column 4 uses the dummy variable equal to one if the institutional ownership exceeds 15% 
for the fund-year.  All regressors in Table 4 enter as controls but only coefficients on DISCOUNT and COMMUNICATION are reported (other 
coefficients are repetitively similar from those in Table 4 and are thus omitted).  Reported for each covariate are the un-scal ed probit coefficient 
(in bold fonts), the t-statistics (in parenthesis), and the sample  average incremental probability  for a unit change in the cov ariate (in percentage 
points).  Reported below COMMUNICATION  are the t-statistics for the difference between th e coefficients from the two subsamples.  * and ** 
indicate significance at the 10% and 5% levels. 
 
  Turnover Avg Trade Size (1,000) %(Trade > 2,000) (%Institution>15%) 
 1989-1993  1994-2003  1989-1993  1994-2003  1989-1993  1994-2003  1989-1993  1994-2003  
  1  2  3  4  
DISCOUNT 0.184** 0.034 ** 0.146 ** 0.031 ** 0.139 ** 0.030 ** 0.155 ** 0.028 ** 
 (3.53) (3.45) (3.45) (3.28) (3.37) (3.11) (3.57) (2.81) 
 2.43% 0.71% 1.96% 0.64% 1.86% 0.63% 2.07% 0.59% 
COMMUNICATION 0.002 -0.003 * -0.126 0.269 ** -0.050 0.030 ** -0.595 0.361 ** 
 (0.57) -(1.83) -(0.77) (3.47) -(1.56) (3.17) -(1.37) (2.53) 
 0.03% -0.06% -1.41% 5.56% -0.36% 0.61% -5.91% 7.50% 
(t-statistics for two sample comparison) -(0.213)  (2.07) **  (1.49)  (3.49) ** 
NOB 367 1078 367 1078 367 1078 367 1078 
Goodness of Fit 0.206 0.141 0.185 0.151 0.187 0.149 0.209 0.152 
 
 
39 
Table 6.  Determinants of Open-Ending Successes 
 
Panel A:  Actual Open-Endings 
 
This table repeats the analysis of Table 4 except replacing the dependent variable with a dummy variable 
for the actual open-endings.  * and ** indicate significance at the 10% and 5% levels. 
 
 Full Sample  1989-1993  1994-2003  
  1  2  3  4  5  6  
DISCOUNT 0.019** 0.042 ** 0.023 ** 0.060 ** 0.214 ** 0.047 ** 
 (3.09) (3.28) (3.25) (3.57) (2.32) (2.60) 
 0.11% 0.29% 0.12% 0.46% 1.92% 0.32% 
LN(MV) -- -- -0.059 -0.035 0.757 ** -0.099 
 -- -- -(0.73) -(0.43) (2.07) -(1.07) 
 -- -- -0.32% -0.27% 6.78% -0.67% 
STDNAV -- -- -0.032 -0.030 -0.601 ** -0.003 
 -- -- -(0.88) -(0.79) -(2.01) -(0.07) 
 -- -- -0.17% -0.23% -5.38% -0.02% 
AGE -- -- -0.129 -0.150 0.314 -0.265 * 
 -- -- -(1.23) -(1.41) (1.02) -(1.85) 
 -- -- -0.69% -1.16% 2.81% -1.78% 
TO -- -- -0.003 -0.002 0.006 -0.003 
 -- -- -(1.52) -(1.06) (0.75) -(1.18) 
 -- -- -0.02% -0.02% 0.05% -0.02% 
FEES -- -- -0.016 -0.028 0.611 -0.114 
 -- -- -(0.16) -(0.27) (1.40) -(0.82) 
 -- -- -0.09% -0.22% 5.47% -0.77% 
GOV -- -- -0.109 -0.177 * -1.419 ** -0.053 
 -- -- -(1.09) -(1.72) -(2.80) -(0.48) 
 -- -- -0.59% -1.37% -12.70% -0.36% 
INSIDER -- -- -0.004 -0.006 -0.052 0.001 
 -- -- -(0.42) -(0.71) -(1.30) (0.12) 
 -- -- -0.02% -0.05% -0.46% 0.01% 
NAVRET -- -- 0.000 -0.004 -0.029 ** -0.001 
 -- -- -(0.10) -(1.00) -(1.97) -(0.28) 
 -- -- 0.00% -0.03% -0.26% -0.01% 
Exogeneity Test:         
ˆθ  -- -0.030 **  -0.045** -0.209 ** -0.027 
 -- -(2.08)  -(2.51) -(2.18) -(1.37) 
Implied ˆρ  -- -0.340  -0.479 -0.731 -0.312 
NOB 1445 1445 1445 1445 367 1078 
Goodness of Fit 0.031 0.043 0.064 0.083 0.307 0.078 
  
 
40 
 
Panel B.  Duration of Open-Ending Attempts 
 
This table reports results from estimating the hazard m odel specified in (3) at the fund level using the 
maximum likelihood estimation method with a Weibu ll-distribution baseline hazard. The dependent 
variable is the length of time between the start of  an open-ending attempt in a fund and its success (if no 
success avails the observation is treated as right-censored at the end of the sample period).  In columns (1) 
and (2), success is narrowly defined as actual open-ending; in columns (3) and (4), it is broadly defined as 
either open-ending, or shrinkage of  discount to below 5%.   All covariates are the same as defined in 
Tables 2 and 4.  Reported coefficients are the marg inal effect of the covariates on the log expected 
duration.   T-statistics (associated with ˆβ in (3)) are reported below in parentheses.  Also reported are the 
Weibull coefficient ( ˆθ ) for each specification, the corresponding t-statistics is for ˆθ -1, the measure of 
duration dependence (that is, if ˆθ -1>0 ( ˆθ-1<0), the instantaneous hazard rate is increasing (decreasing) 
with time).  The number of observation is 106.  * and ** indicate significance at the 10% and 5% levels.  
 
 
 Open-Ending  Open-Ending & (Discount <5%)  
  (1)  (2)  (3)  (4)  
DISCOUNT 0.008 0.008 0.000 0.000 
 (0.76) (0.80) -(0.05) -(0.05) 
LN(MV) -0.017 -0.013 0.008 0.008 
 -(0.39) -(0.31) (0.19) (0.22) 
STDNAV -0.011 -0.026 -0.027 -0.033 
 -(0.21) -(0.51) -(0.63) -(0.77) 
AGE 0.497** 0.531 ** 0.454 ** 0.468 ** 
 (2.53) (2.86) (2.55) (2.82) 
TO 0.001 0.001 0.000 0.000 
 (0.29) (0.17) (0.06) -(0.01) 
FEES 0.112 0.129 0.183 0.188 
 (0.89) (1.07) (1.54) (1.62) 
GOV 0.265*  0.104  
 (1.94)  (0.93)  
STAGBOARD  0.513**  0.230 
  (2.22)  (1.25) 
INSIDER 0.087** 0.087 ** 0.058 ** 0.059 ** 
 (2.74) (2.77) (2.50) (2.55) 
NAVRET -0.004 -0.003 -0.006 * -0.006 
 -(0.82) -(0.56) -(1.64) -(1.50) 
Weibull Coefficient ( ˆθ )  0.838* 0.834 * 0.820 ** 0.817 ** 
t-statistic for ( ˆθ -1) -(1.68) -(1.73) -(2.13) -(2.18) 
Figure 1:  Activist Example:  The Emerging Germany Fund (1997-1999)gp g g y ( )
Goldstein 
proposal 
25%
30%
pp
defeated
Fund managed 
Goldstein 
proxy contests Deep Discount 
15%
20%
25%
Discount
distribution proxy contests
Fund 
announced 
open ending
0%
5%
10%
Fund Goldstein & Olin 
accumulated 
ownership Law suit against 
Goldstein
open-ending
0%
199701
199702
199703
199704
199705
199706
199707
199708
199709
199710
199711
199712
199801
199802
199803
199804
199805
199806
199807
199808
199809
199810
199811
199812
199901
199902
199903
199904
199905
41
 
42 
 
Figure 2.  Attempted and Successful Open-Endings of Close-End Funds (1988-2003) 
 
This chart plots the following time series for the period 198 8-2003:  (1) Successful open-ending cases in each year; (2) Succes sful open-ending 
cases as a proportion of the total number of funds in each year ; (3) Attempted (including successful) open-ending cases in each  year; (4) 
Attempted (including successful) open-ending cases as a  proportion of the total number of funds in each year.  
 
 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Frequency in Numbers and % of All Funds
# Success # Success/# Funds # Attemps # Attemps/# Funds