 
 
 
 
 
ISSUANCE OF 
NON-VOTING DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS 
 
 
 
 
PROSPECTUS 
 -i-
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 Page 
PART 1 
 
PROSPECTUS SUMMARY ................................................................................................ 1 
PART 2 
 
DEFINITIONS ...................................................................................................................... 3 
PART 3 
 
INVESTMENT CONSIDERATIONS ................................................................................. 5 
PART 4 
 
SUBSCRIPTION, PURCHASE AND ALLOCATION ....................................................... 8 
PART 5 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NVDR ................................................................. 10 
1. Status.......................................... ................................................................................. 10 
2. Form, Issuance and Title ....................... ...................................................................... 10 
2.1 Form and Issuance ............................. ............................................................ 10 
2.2 Title ......................................... ....................................................................... 10 
3. Investment Limitation and Reporting Requirement ................................................... 10 
3.1 Investment Limitation ......................... ........................................................... 10 
3.2 Reporting Requirements ........................ ........................................................ 10 
4. Purchase, Sale, Transfer and Exchange of NVDR .. ................................................... 12 
4.1 Procedure for Purchasing and Selling the NVDR . ........................................ 12 
4.2 Transfer Procedures ........................... ............................................................ 15 
4.3 Exchange Procedures ........................... .......................................................... 15 
5. Clearing and Settlement Procedures ............. .............................................................. 15 
5.1 Clearing and Settlement where the Investor Subs cribes through the 
Underwriter .................................................................................................... 15 
5.2 Clearing and Settlement where the Investor Exec utes Purchase or Sale 
Orders through the Agent .............................................................................. 16 
5.3 Default in Payment and Delivery of NVDRs ...... .......................................... 16 
6. Deposit of NVDRs and Securities ................ .............................................................. 16 
6.1 Deposit of NVDRs .............................. ........................................................... 16 
6.2 Deposit of Securities ......................... ............................................................. 16 
7. Rights, Duties and Responsibilities ............ ................................................................ 16 
7.1 Rights, Duties and Responsibilities of the Issu er .......................................... 16 
7.2 Rights, Duties and Responsibilities of the Inve stors ..................................... 18 
7.3 Limitation of Rights, Duties and Responsibiliti es when investing 
 in NVDRs representing Warrants or TSRs ........... ........................................ 18 
 -ii-
8. Voting Rights .................................. ............................................................................ 18 
9. Receipt/Exercise of Financial Benefits of Invest ors .................................................. 19 
9.1 Distribution of Dividend Received by the Issuer  .......................................... 19 
9.2 Rights to Subscribe for Additional NVDR ....... ............................................. 20 
9.3 Sale of NVDRs by the Investor in case of Tender  Offer ............................... 20 
9.4 Other Financial Benefits ...................... .......................................................... 21 
10. Mandatory Purchase of NVDRs in case of Delistin g ................................................. 21 
11. Additional NVDRs and Adjustment ........................................................................... 21 
12. Alterations or Modifications of the Terms ..... ............................................................ 22 
13. Cessation of the Issuance of NVDRs and Investme nt in the Securities ..................... 22 
 13/1       Termination of Rights, Duties and Respo nsibilities of the Issuer ................ 22 
14. Accounting Period of the Issuer ............... .................................................................. 23 
15. Registrar of the NVDR ......................... ...................................................................... 23 
16. Notice .......................................................................................................................... 23 
17. Governing Law and Jurisdiction ................................................................................. 23 
17.1 Governing Law ................................ .............................................................. 23 
17.2 Jurisdiction ................................. ................................................................... 23 
PART 6 
 
THAI TAXATION CONSIDERATIONS FOR NON-RESIDENT INVESTORS ............ 24 
PART 7 
 
REFERENCED PERSONS……………………………………………………...…………...26 
 
(1) 
PART 1 
 
PROSPECTUS SUMMARY 
The following summary does not purport to be comple te and is qualified in its entirety by, 
and should be read in conjunction with, the more de tailed information contained elsewhere in this 
Prospectus. Unless otherwise noted, all important t erms and phrases used in this Prospectus are 
defined in Part 2 -“Definitions”. 
Description of Non-Voting Depositary Receipts  
This Prospectus relates to the issuance by Thai NVD R Company Limited, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the SET of a new form of security kno wn as a Non-Voting Depositary Receipt or 
NVDR.  The creation of this new form of security wa s authorized by the SEC in accordance with 
SEC notification No. TorJor. 31/2552 re: Offering o f Non Voting Depositary Receipt by the 
Subsidiary of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, dated  September 1 , 2009. As more fully described 
elsewhere in this Prospectus, each Non-Voting Depos itary Receipt represents certain Financial 
Benefits (but not voting rights) attached to a Secu rity of the relevant Target Company. The purpose 
of this Prospectus is to give Investors detailed in formation about the terms and conditions of the 
NVDRs as well as an understanding of the investment  considerations associated with purchasing 
them from the Issuer.   
Major Objectives of the NVDRs  
 Under Thai law, the percentage of shares that can be held by non-Thai individuals or entities 
in a company listed or to be listed on the Stock Ex change may be limited. Foreigners who are 
interested in making investments in these companies  are often prevented from doing so because of 
these foreign ownership restrictions. The NVDR repr esents an investment alternative that allows 
foreign investors to receive the Financial Benefits  associated with the ownership of Securities in a 
company whose Securities are listed or to be listed  on the Stock Exchange without being concerned 
about the foreign shareholding limitations. Under t he NVDR scheme, the Investor will inform the 
Issuer of the number of NVDRs (representing the Financial Benefits of the relevant Securities of that 
Target Company) it would like to purchase. The Issu er shall, in accordance with the Terms, proceed 
to purchase the Securities through the Agent at the same price and in the same quantity as the NVDRs 
the Investor wishes to purchase from the Issuer. Once the Issuer has purchased the relevant Securities 
it will issue to the Investor the NVDRs representin g those Securities. Through its ownership of the 
NVDRs, the Investor will obtain all of the Financia l Benefits in and to the relevant Securities. The 
Issuer will be the registered and legal owner of th e Securities. However, in case where NVDRs 
represent Shares, the Investor will not have any vo ting rights with respect to the Shares as specified  
in Condition 8 of the Terms. In this way, foreign ownership limitations will be complied with and the 
Investor will be able to gain the Financial Benefits of investing in the Target Company. 
Amount and Price of the NVDRs 
The number of NVDRs to be issued to the Investor in accordance with this Prospectus will be 
equal to the number of Securities  purchased by the Issuer. The purchase price for one NVDR will be 
equal to the price of one Security . 
Subscription, Purchase and Allocation Procedures  
 The procedures for the subscription, purchase and allocation of the NVDRs will depend on 
the Securities  being purchased are Existing Securities or New Shares or Warrants. These procedures 
are described in detail in Part 4 - “Subscription, Purchase  and Allocation Procedures ” 
 
  (    )   2 
Information about the Issuer 
Name   ...................................................... Thai NVDR Company Limited 
Registered Capital .................................. Baht 10,000,000 
Nature of Business  .................................. To issue NVDRs to Investors and use the 
proceeds derived from the sale of the 
NVDRs to invest in the Securities  
Financial Condition, Business Operation 
and Material Information of Business .... 
As the Issuer was recently established on 
October 4, 2000, no additional information 
is currently available 
Major Shareholder  .................................. The Issuer is a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of the Stock Exchange, which owns 
999,993 shares representing 99.99% of the 
Issuer’s total share capital 
Management............................................ The Issuer is managed by its Board of 
Directors. The current directors’ name are 
given on Issuer’s website 
(https://www.set.or.th/nvdr/en/about/about
.html). 
Regularly Contacted Financial 
Institutions  ............................................. 
- 
Auditors  ................................................... The current auditors’ name are given on 
Issuer’s website 
(https://www.set.or.th/nvdr/en/about/about
.html). 
 
Legal Counsel ......................................... White & Case (Thailand) Limited 
4th  - 5th  Floor Gaysorn Place  
(Gaysorn Plaza) 
999 Ploenchit Road 
Lumpini, Pathumwan 
Bangkok 10330 
Thailand  
 
  (    )   3 
PART 2 
 
DEFINITIONS 
Set out below is a list of important words and phrases used in this Prospectus and their 
respective meanings. 
Agent  is any member company of the Stock Exchange who (a) acts as agent for the Issuer in 
(i) selling NVDRs to, or purchasing them from, the Investor (ii) selling or purchasing the 
Securities  and (iii)  performs the duties of the Agent under the Terms or  who (b) represents 
the Investor in connection with the purchase and/or sale of the NVDRs. 
Articles of Association are the articles of association of the Issuer. 
Business Day  is a day on which each of the Stock Exchange, the TSD and commercial banks 
in Thailand are open for business. 
Condition  is a condition of the Terms. 
Convertible Securities are Warrants, TSRs, Convertible debentures or other securities those 
rights may be converted into Shares, and are issued  by the Target Company specifically in 
order to grant these rights.  
Custodian  is, as the context requires, (a) the TSD, acting i n its capacity as custodian of the 
Securities  or (b) any Person acting as a custodian for the Investor. 
Existing Shares  are the ordinary or preferred shares of the Target  Company that are already 
in existence. 
Financial Benefits  are the dividends and all financial rights and oth er benefits associated 
with or arising out of ownership of the Securities. 
Investor  is, as the context requires, (a) any Person (i) whose name appears on the list of names 
kept by the Agent as the owner of the NVDRs or (ii) in whose name a NVDR is registered in the 
NVDR Register Book or (b) any Person who is interested in purchasing NVDRs.  
Issuer  is Thai NVDR Company Limited or any successor entity of the Issuer. 
Issuer’s Record Date is the date established by Issuer to determine which Investors are 
eligible to receive any rights. 
Law  includes the rules and regulations of the SEC, the  Stock Exchange, the TSD, other 
relevant Thai authorities and the Articles of Association. 
MOC  is the Ministry of Commerce of Thailand. 
New Shares are new ordinary or preferred shares issued by the Target Company in 
connection with an increase in its paid-up capital. 
Non-Voting Depositary Receipt  or “ NVDR ” is a new form of security issued by the Issuer, 
each of which represents the Financial Benefits att ached to Securities, which as the context 
requires means, (a) Shares and/or (b) Warrants and/ or (c) TSRs, the terms and conditions of 
which are more fully set out in the Prospectus. 
NVDR Register Book  is the registration book relating to the NVDRs whi ch the Registrar 
keeps and which contains the details of the holders of the NVDRs. 
 
  (    )   4 
Office  is the Office of the SEC. 
Person  includes joint ventures, corporations, companies, trusts, governments (including 
government authorities, public or regulatory bodies, authorities or agencies), bodies corporate 
and unincorporated, associations, partnerships and individuals. 
Prospectus is this prospectus relating to the issuance of NVDRs by the Issuer. 
Registrar is the TSD, acting in its capacity as registrar of the NVDRs. 
Related Persons  are persons listed under section 258 of the SEC Act. 
SEC  is the Securities and Exchange Commission of Thailand, or any successor entity of the SEC. 
SEC Act  is the Securities and Exchange Act B.E. 2535, as may be amended, supplemented or 
changed from time to time. 
Securities  are the Shares, the Warrants and the TSRs. 
Settlement Date  is the date on which delivery of and payment for t he Securities  is settled 
according to the clearing and settlement regulations of the Stock Exchange. 
Shares are the Existing Shares and/or the New Shares, issu ed by the Target Company, that 
have been or are to be listed on the Stock Exchange. 
Security  Register Book  is the Security  registration book relating to the Securities  which is 
kept by the registrar of the Target Company and whi ch contains the details of the holders of 
the Securities . 
Stock Exchange  is the Stock Exchange of Thailand, or any successo r organization carrying 
out the functions of the Stock Exchange. 
Target Company  is a company, established under Thai law, (a) whose Securities are listed 
on the Stock Exchange or (b) whose Securities have been approved by the Office to be sold to 
the public and who has filed an application to list its Securities on the Stock Exchange. 
Target Company’s Record Date  is the date established by the Target Company to determine 
which shareholders are eligible to receive any rights.   
Terms  are the terms and conditions of the NVDRs (includi ng any and all exhibits and 
attachments referenced in the Terms, if any), as the same may be amended and supplemented 
from time to time in accordance with the procedures specified in this Prospectus. 
TSD  is Thailand Securities Depository Company Limited, or any successor entity of the TSD. 
Transferable Subscription Right or TSRs  is an instrument issued to an existing shareholder 
of the Target Company that entitles that shareholde r to purchase New shares of the Target 
Company in proportion to its current shareholding. 
Underwriter is a securities company licensed to operate an unde rwriting business and who, 
in that capacity underwrites the New Shares or acts  as an Agent of either the Issuer or the 
Investor for the subscription and sale of the NVDRs representing the New Shares. 
Warrants  are the warrants to purchase Shares. 
 
 
  (    )   5 
PART 3 
 
INVESTMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
Investors should carefully consider all of the info rmation provided in this Prospectus in order 
to make an informed decision with respect to, and in evaluating an investment in, the NVDRs. 
General Information  
The NVDR is a new type of security that provides In vestors with all the Financial Benefits 
(but not the voting rights) of the Securities. The creation of this new form of security was authorized 
by the SEC in accordance with a notification dated August 3, 2009. 
Investors wishing to purchase NVDRs from the Issuer  are required to place a purchase 
order through an Agent on the Stock Exchange.  Once  the Issuer purchases the Securities that 
these NVDRs will represent, it will issue the NVDRs to the Investor in an amount equal to the 
amount of the Securities purchased, in the ratio of  one NVDR to one Security. Although the 
Financial Benefits associated with the Securities will pass to the Investor, the Issuer will be the 
registered owner and retain legal ownership of the Securities.  The Investor will not be entitled 
to exercise any voting rights with respect to the S hares, except in the situation where it is 
proposed that the Shares be delisted from the Stock  Exchange, in which case the Investor may 
be entitled to influence the vote of the Issuer wit h respect to that particular resolution.  For a 
more detailed explanation of the voting restrictions, see Part 5 – “Terms and Conditions of the 
NVDR ”. The rights and obligations of, and the relationship between, the Issuer and the Investor 
are more fully explained in the Terms.  
As the owner of the NVDR, the Investor may (i) sell the NVDR to the Issuer, (ii) transfer the NVDR to 
any Person or (iii) exchange the NVDR for the Securities  and vice versa, subject to certain restrictions. The 
detailed procedures for buying, selling, transferring or exchanging the NVDRs are explained in Condition 4. 
Issuance of the NVDR – General 
 After the Investor has placed an order to purchase  the NVDR with the Issuer and the Issuer 
has purchased the Securities, the Issuer will deliver the NVDRs to the Investor in accordance with the 
procedures set out in Condition 4.  
(a) Issuance of NVDRs Representing Existing Securities  
The NVDR is not considered “issued” on the date the order is filled by the Issuer; rather, it is 
considered issued on the Settlement Date when the relevant Existing Securities are delivered 
to the Issuer. In accordance with the present clearing and settlement system of the Stock 
Exchange, the Settlement Date will be the Business Day as specified by the clearing and 
settlement regulations of the Stock Exchange. Therefore, the Existing Securities will not be 
delivered to the Issuer until the Settlement Date. Prior to the Settlement Date, the Investor 
holds only the right to receive the NVDR. Upon the completion of the clearing and settlement 
of the Securities on the Settlement Date, the NVDR will be duly issued and the Investor will 
be the legal holder of the NVDR.  
(b) Issuance of NVDRs Representing New Shares or Wa rrants 
When the Issuer purchases and pays for any New Shares, it will not immediately become the 
registered holder of those New Shares until (a) the  Target Company submits all necessary 
paperwork to the MOC for and the MOC has accepted t he registration of (i) the increase of 
its paid-up capital and (ii) the Issuer as a holder  of the New Shares and (b) the Issuer has 
received the certificates representing the New Shar es or, if the New Shares are in scripless 
form, the New Shares have been credited into the Cu stodian account of the Issuer. During  
 
  (    )   6 
the period commencing from the time of payment of t he subscription price for the New 
Shares, until the registration process and the delivery of the New Shares  is complete, the 
Investor holds only the right to receive the NVDRs representing those New Shares. Once the 
registration process and the delivery for the New S hares  is complete, the NVDRs will be 
considered duly issued to, and legally owned by, the Investor. 
When the Issuer purchases and pays for any New Warrants, it will not immediately become the 
registered holder of those New Warrants until the Issuer has received the certificates representing 
the New Warrants, if the New Warrants are in scripl ess form, the New Warrants have been 
credited into the Custodian account of the Issuer. During the period commencing from the time of 
payment of the subscription price for the New Warrants, until the delivery of the New Warrants  is 
complete, the Investor holds only the right to rece ive the NVDRs representing those New 
Warrants. Once the delivery for the New Warrants  is complete, the NVDRs will be considered 
duly issued to, and legally owned by, the Investor. 
During any period where the Investor only holds the right to receive the NVDR, the Investor 
may enter into a transaction in respect of that rig ht.  If the clearing and settlement, the 
relevant registration with the MOC or the delivery by the Issuer, as the case may be, of the 
Securities mentioned in the previous two paragraphs is unable to be completed, for whatever 
reason, the Issuer is entitled not to issue the NVD R to the Investor and to cancel the entire 
transaction.  If this occurs, the Issuer shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused to the 
Investor resulting from or in connection with the cancellation of the transaction by the Issuer. 
Rights of the Issuer Not to Issue and Sell the NVDRs  
 The Issuer has the right not to issue and sell the  NVDRs to an Investor upon the occurrence 
of any of the following specified events: 
(1) The Issuer held the Shares in percentage close to the investment limitation of Shares in 
certain businesses under applicable Law 
(2) The Issuer is unable to purchase the Securities  at the same subscription price as that 
offered by the Investor for the NVDRs;  
(3) The clearing and settlement and/or delivery of the Securities  is not complete on the 
Settlement Date; or 
(4) In the event the Issuer subscribes for and purc hases New Shares, the Target Company 
fails to complete the registration at the MOC of th e matters mentioned in the section 
entitled “ Issuance of NVDRs Representing New Shares or Warrants ”. 
Purchase Obligations of the Issuer 
 The Issuer has no obligation to purchase the NVDRs  from the Investor if the Issuer is unable to sell 
the Securities  at the price equal to the price at which the Investor wishes to sell the NVDR to the Issuer. 
 
Purchase of Securities and Exchange of NVDR for Securities  
The Issuer shall not be liable to the Investor or any other Person for any damage or loss if the Investor 
or any other Person is unable, for whatever reason, to register its name as a registered holder of the Securities  
in the Security  Register Book as a result of the events mentioned in Conditions 4.1.3 (5), 4.3.2 and 10. 
Issuer’s Voting Rights  
As the registered holder of the Shares, the Issuer has the right to vote at its discretion at the 
 
  (    )   7 
meeting of the shareholders of the Target Company a s specified in Condition 8.  The Investor shall 
have neither voting rights nor any right to instruc t the Issuer how to vote in the meeting of the 
shareholders of the Target Company unless otherwise specified in Condition 8. 
Issuer’s Right to Take Action 
 The Issuer reserves the right to take any steps an d actions at its sole discretion under applicable 
law in order to have the Investor comply with the T erms.  The Issuer shall not be liable for any loss or 
damage caused to the Investor arising from or in connection with taking such steps and actions. 
Investment Limitations  
 The Issuer reserves the rights to take any steps an d actions as the Issuer deems appropriate 
and necessary under the virtue of applicable law in  order to distribute and allocate the Financial 
Benefits to Investors according to Term and Condition of NVDR. 
Under Thai law, there may be limitations on the percentage of Shares able to be held by any single 
individual or entity in connection with certain businesses. In the case where (a) Issuer held the Shares in 
excess of the relevant threshold percentage of Shares, those shares that are in excess shall be enforced to 
sell out, in this case the Issuer shall not issue a nd sell the NVDRs to the Investors or (b) Investors hold 
NVDRs either singly or in combination with the Shares, or  vice versa, in excess of the relevant threshold 
percentage of Shares, those shares that are in exce ss will lose Financial Benefits attached to them. T he 
Issuer shall not be liable to an Investor for the l oss of such rights due to an investment in the rele vant 
Target Company beyond the Limitation imposed by applicable law. 
Each Investor should make its own investigation int o whether the relevant Target Company in 
which the Investor wishes to invest is subject to a ny such restrictions before making the investment i n 
the NVDRs representing the Shares of that Target Company. 
Investment Risks  
There are no Issuer-related risks associated with t he NVDRs. The risks associated with the 
NVDRs are those that arise from risks associated wi th an investment in the Securities . An Investor 
should carefully consider the risks associated with  the relevant Target Company before making the 
investment in the NVDRs representing the Securities  of that Target Company.   
The Investor shall have no right to take any type of action, whether legal or otherwise, against the 
Issuer in connection with its investment in the NVDRs, unless the Issuer engages in willful misconduct with 
respect to the distribution of the Financial Benefits, and such action causes damage to the Investor. 
Any claim made by an Investor against the Issuer shall be limited to the Financial Benefits on 
the Securities underlying the NVDRs held by such Investor. 
 
Issuer’s Undertaking  
As the Issuer’s main objective under its memorandum  of Association is to issue the NVDR to 
the Investor and use the proceeds derived from the sale of the NVDR to invest in the Securities, the 
Issuer undertakes not to create any liabilities or indebtedness other than those relating to the issuance of 
the NVDR and the operation of the Issuer. In additi on, the Issuer undertakes neither to pledge nor to 
create any lien or encumbrance over the Securities underlying the NVDR.   
Governing Law and Jurisdiction 
The NVDRs shall be governed by and construed in acc ordance with the Law. If there is an 
inconsistency between any provision of the Terms an d any provision of the Law, the relevant 
 
  (    )   8 
provision of the Laws shall, to the extent of the i nconsistency, prevail. Any legal action or 
proceedings with respect to the NVDRs shall be brought in the courts of Thailand.   
Each Investor and any Person to whom an Investor tr ansfers its interest in the NVDRs 
acknowledges and agrees that it has read and unders tood all the provisions of the Terms and that 
it shall be subject to and bound by the Terms. 
 
 
 
PART 4 
 
SUBSCRIPTION, PURCHASE AND ALLOCATION  
Subscription, Purchase and Allocation through the Agent 
When the Investor places an order to purchase the N VDRs through the Agent, the Agent will 
purchase the Securities  on the Stock Exchange (according to the trading re gulations of the Stock 
Exchange) for and on behalf of the Issuer at a pric e equal to the price at which the Investor offers t o 
purchase the NVDRs. On the Settlement Date, the Issuer shall (i) sell the NVDR to the Investor through 
the Agent, (ii) notify the Investor of the purchase  through the Agent in accordance with the Securitie s 
purchase reporting practice of the Stock Exchange a nd (iii) subject to the provisions of Condition 5, 
register the TSD as nominee for the Investor, in the NVDR Register Book. The Agent shall prepare the list 
of names of the Investors who have purchased NVDRs in accordance with that specified by the Stock 
Exchange and the TSD. The Agent shall also submit the list of Investors who have purchased NVDRs to 
the TSD within the period specified by the TSD so t hat the Issuer is able to distribute the Financial 
Benefits attached to the Securities represented by the NVDRs to the Investors as described in Condition 9. 
Subscription, Purchase and Allocation through the Underwriter 
The Investor may subscribe for the NVDRs through th e Underwriter if the Target Company 
arranges for the sale of New Shares or Warrants thr ough the Underwriter. When the Investor places an 
order to subscribe for the NVDRs through the Underw riter and has paid for such subscription, the 
Issuer shall take the following steps: 
(1) The Issuer shall instruct the Underwriter to su bscribe for the New Shares or Warrants 
for and on behalf of the Issuer in the same amount as the NVDRs ordered by the 
Investor, in accordance with the subscription, disposal and payment procedures of New 
Shares or Warrants specified by the Target Company. 
(2) The Issuer shall sell an amount of the NVDRs eq ual to the amount of New Shares that 
the Underwriter has purchased on the Issuer’s behal f after (a) the MOC has accepted 
the registration of (i) the increase of the Target Company’s paid-up capital and (ii) the 
Issuer as the holder of the New Shares and (b) the Issuer has received the Share 
certificates representing the New Shares, if the Ne w Shares are in scripless form, they 
have been credited into the Custodian account of the Issuer. 
The Issuer shall sell an amount of the NVDRs equal to the amount of New 
Warrants that the Underwriter has purchased on the Issuer’s behalf after the 
Issuer has received the certificates representing the New Warrants, if the New Warrants 
are in scripless form, they have been credited into the Custodian account of the Issuer. 
(3) If the Underwriter is unable to purchase any Ne w Shares or Warrants at the price 
specified by the Issuer, the order to subscribe for the NVDRs shall be cancelled. The 
 
  (    )   9 
Underwriter must then return the payment for the su bscription of the NVDRs to the 
Investor, within the Business Day after the date th e Issuer has been informed of the 
Underwriter’s inability to fulfill the order. 
(4) If the Underwriter is able to purchase only a p ortion of the New Shares or Warrants, 
and there remain unpurchased New Shares or Warrants  according to the subscription 
order for New Shares or Warrants, the Underwriter s hall purchase such portion of the 
New Shares or Warrants, and the remaining subscription order for NVDRs representing 
the unfulfilled subscription order for the New Shar es or Warrants shall be cancelled. 
The Underwriter must then return the payment for th e NVDRs in the amount equal to 
the number of the New Shares or Warrants that were not able to be purchased in 
accordance with the subscription order, to the Inve stor within the Business Day after 
the date the Issuer has been informed of the Underwriter’s inability to fulfill the order. 
(5) If the Target Company fails to apply for the li sting of the New Shares or Warrants on 
the Stock Exchange within the period specified by t he Stock Exchange, or the Stock 
Exchange refuses to list the New Shares or Warrants , the Issuer shall purchase the 
NVDRs from the Investor in the number that the Inve stor has purchased through the 
Underwriter. In this regard, the Investor shall eit her purchase or arrange for any 
Persons to purchase the New Shares or Warrants from  the Issuer within ninety (90) 
days from the date following (i) the last day of th e listing period as specified by the 
Stock Exchange or (ii) the day the Stock Exchange h as refused to list the New Shares  
or Warrants, as the case may be. After such ninety (90) day period, if the New Shares 
or Warrants still remain unsold, the Issuer shall have the right to sell the New Shares or 
Warrants to any Person at the price the Issuer deem s appropriate and to purchase the 
NVDRs for the price that it receives from the sale of the New Shares or Warrants.   
 The Issuer shall not be liable to the Investor or to any other Person for any loss or damage 
if the sale price of the New Shares or Warrants sold by the Issuer is lower than the price 
at which those New Shares or Warrants were purchased from the Target Company. 
If a subscription, purchase and allocation for the New Shares or Warrants through the 
Underwriter is no longer necessitated by law, the Issuer may allow the Investor to subscribe, purchase 
or allocate the NVDRs using in the same subscriptio n, purchase and allocation procedures as the 
issuance of the New Shares or Warrants of the Target Company. 
 
  (    )   10 
PART 5 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NVDR 
The following summary of the terms and conditions of the NVDR is qualified entirely by, and is 
subject to, the detailed information contained or referred to elsewhere in this Prospectus.   
1. Status 
The NVDR constitutes a direct, general, uncondition al and unsecured obligation of the Issuer 
that ranks pari passu  among each other and in priority to any share capi tal of the Issuer.  The NVDR 
does not convey to the Investor any obligations wit h respect to the Securities. The Issuer is the 
registered holder and retains legal ownership of the Securities. 
2. Form, Issuance and Title 
2.1 Form and Issuance 
 The NVDR is issued in book-entry form.  The Invest or may, at any time, request the issuance 
of an NVDR certificate representing the number of t he NVDRs held by such Investor from the 
TSD in accordance with the procedure(s) specified b y the TSD.  The TSD may charge a fee 
with respect to the NVDR certificate similar to the  fee charged for the issuance of a share 
certificate of a company listed on the Stock Exchange. 
2.2 Title 
Title to the NVDR passes by transfer and registrati on in the NVDR Register Book. The 
Investor will (except as otherwise required by law)  be treated as the absolute owner of the 
NVDR for all purposes.  
3. Investment Limitation and Reporting Requirement 
3.1 Investment Limitation  
 No Investor may acquire or hold any combination of the NVDRs and the Shares of  business  if, 
as a result of that holding, that Investor would ho ld (treating each NVDR as the equivalent of 
one Share) in aggregate of 25% or more of the total  number of voting rights of such business.  
In the event that any Investor reaches that threshold, the Issuer shall purchase the NVDRs from 
the Investor until the aggregate number of the Shares (treating each NVDR as the equivalent of 
one Share) held by such Investor is below 25% of th e total number of voting rights of such 
business.  
In determining whether the number of voting rights reaches the threshold percentage referenced in 
the previous paragraph, the Issuer will consider under Section 247 and 258 of the SEC Act and rules 
promulgated there under by the SEC or Financial Institutions Businesses Act B.E. 2551 are the 
governing laws. 
 
3.2 Reporting Requirements 
3.2.1 Reporting Requirements of the Investors 
(a)  The acquisition or disposal of the NVDRs repre senting Shares 
Where any Investor acquires or disposes of the NVDR s representing 
Shares, either singly or in combination with the Sh ares, and if as                        
 
  (    )   11 
a result of such holding such Investor would (treat ing each NVDR as             
the equivalent of one Share) increase or decrease t he number of the               
Shares by any multiple of 5 percent of the total nu mber of voting rights of 
such business.  
In the case where reporting the acquisition of newl y issued Shares, the 
acquisition date will be regarded as the date when the MOC has registered the 
change in paid-up capital.  
(b) The acquisition of the NVDRs representing Conve rtible Securities 
Where any Investor acquires of the NVDRs representing Convertible Securities 
of business either singly or in combination with the Convertible Securities, and if 
as a result of such holding such Investor would (tr eating each NVDR as the 
equivalent of one Warrant or TSR) increase the numb er of the Shares and 
NVDRs representing Shares by any multiple of 5 perc ent of the total number 
of voting rights of such business,  the base for calculation is the total number of 
voting rights of the Shares and NVDRs representing Shares where any 
Investor may acquire if that Investor exercises the  rights under his or her 
ownership of Convertible Securities and NVDRs repre senting Warrants and 
TSRs, multiplied by 100 and divided by the total number of voting rights of such 
business.  
In the case where reporting of acquisition of newly  issued Warrants or TSRs, 
the acquisition date will be regarded as the issued date of such securities of the 
Target Company. 
Such Investor is required to report its holding to the Issuer within three (3)  Business 
Days following the date of such event in the form s tipulated by the Issuer (which is 
available at both the Issuer and the website of the  Stock Exchange located at: 
www.set.or.th/nvdr). 
In determining when the above reporting requirement  is triggered, the Issuer will 
consider under Section 246 and 258 of the SEC Act a nd rules promulgated there 
under by the SEC or Financial Institutions Business es Act B.E. 2551 are the 
governing laws. 
The reporting requirement mentioned in this Conditi on 3.2.1 shall be in addition to 
any other reporting requirements under applicable l aws. All reporting requirements 
under the SEC Act with respect to the Securities shall also at all times apply equally 
with respect to the NVDRs. 
3.2.2 Penalty for Non-Compliance with the Reporting  Requirements 
 The Issuer shall have the right to impose a fine o n any Investor who does not report his 
acquisition, disposition or holding as mentioned in  Conditions 3.2.1 in the amount 
specified in Sections 298 of the SEC Act. 
 In the case where the Investor does not pay a fine  as imposed by the Issuer, the Issuer 
shall have the right to take any necessary steps or  actions as its deems appropriate 
under applicable laws against such Investor in order to obtain such fine. 
3.2.3 Rights of the Issuer to Disclose the Report 
 The Issuer shall have the right to disclose the ac quisition or disposition or holding 
reported by an Investor under Conditions 3.2.1 to t he public, as it deems appropriate 
and/or in order to comply with applicable laws.  Th e Issuer shall not be liable for any 
 
  (    )   12 
loss or damage caused to the Issuer arising from or  relating to such disclosure by the 
Issuer and the Investor shall have no right to claim against the Issuer in respect of such 
loss or damage. 
4. Purchase, Sale, Transfer and Exchange of NVDR 
Investors may, on any Business Day, (i) place order s to purchase or sell the NVDR from or to 
the Issuer through the Agent, (ii) place orders to purchase the NVDR with the Issuer through the 
Underwriter, (iii) transfer the NVDR to other Persons through the TSD and (iv) exchange the Securities 
for the NVDR or vice versa through a big lot transaction. 
Fees for acting as the Agent in purchasing and selling the NVDR shall be as agreed upon by the 
Investor and the Agent.   
4.1 Procedure for Purchasing and Selling the NVDR 
4.1.1 Purchasing through the Agent 
When the Investor places an order to purchase the N VDRs through the Agent, the 
Agent will purchase the Securities on the Stock Exc hange (according to the trading 
regulations of the Stock Exchange) for and on behal f of the Issuer at a price equal to 
the price at which the Investor offers to purchase the NVDRs.  On the Settlement Date, 
the Issuer shall (i) sell the NVDR to the Investor through the Agent, (ii) notify the 
Investor of the purchase through the Agent in accor dance with the share purchase 
reporting practice of the Stock Exchange and (iii) subject to the provisions of 
Condition 5, register the TSD as nominee for the Investor, in the NVDR Register Book.  
The Agent shall prepare the list of names of the Investors who have purchased NVDRs 
in accordance with that specified by the Stock Exchange and the TSD.  The Agent shall 
also submit the list of Investors who have purchase d NVDRs to the TSD within the 
period specified by the TSD so that the Issuer is a ble to distribute the Financial 
Benefits attached to the Securities represented by the NVDRs to the Investors as 
described in Condition 9. 
 
 4.1.2 Selling through the Agent 
An Investor may sell to the Issuer through the Agent, the NVDRs that are owned by it.   
When the Investor places orders to sell the NVDRs t hrough the Agent, the Agent will 
sell the Securities on behalf of the Issuer on the Stock Exchange (according to the 
trading regulations of the Stock Exchange) at the price specified by the Investor for the 
sale of the NVDRs. On the Settlement Date, upon the  Agent being able to sell the 
Securities at such price, the Issuer shall purchase  the NVDRs from the Investor by 
notifying the results of the buys back of the NVDRs  to the Investor through the Agent 
according to the share sales reporting practice of the Stock Exchange. The Issuer shall, 
subject to the provisions of Condition 5, through t he TSD, register the sale transaction 
in the NVDR Register Book. The Agent shall prepare the present list of names of the 
Investors in accordance with that specified by the Stock Exchange and the TSD. The 
Agent shall also submit the said list of Investors to the TSD within the period specified 
by the TSD so that the Issuer is able to distribute  the Financial Benefits attached to the 
Securities represented by the NVDRs to the Investors as described in Condition 9. 
In the event the Investor sells the NVDRs in accord ance with a tender offer, the 
procedures described in Conditions 9.3 and 10 shall be applicable. 
A NVDR that is bought by the Issuer shall be cancelled. 
 
  (    )   13 
4.1.3 Purchasing through the Underwriter in connection with the Offer of New Shares  or Warrants 
The Investor may subscribe for the NVDRs through th e Underwriter if the Target 
Company arranges for the sale of New Shares or Warr ants through the Underwriter. 
When the Investor places an order to subscribe for the NVDRs through the Underwriter 
and has paid for such subscription, the Issuer shall take the following steps: 
(1) The Issuer shall instruct the Underwriter to su bscribe for the New Shares or 
Warrants for and on behalf of the Issuer in the same amount as the NVDRs ordered 
by the Investor, in accordance with the subscriptio n, disposal and payment 
procedures of New Shares or Warrants specified by the Target Company. 
(2) The Issuer shall sell an amount of the NVDRs eq ual to the amount of New 
Shares that the Underwriter has purchased on the Is suer’s behalf after (a) the 
MOC has accepted the registration of (i) the increa se of the Target Company’s 
paid-up capital and (ii) the Issuer as the holder o f the New Shares and (b) the 
Issuer has received the Share certificates represen ting the New Shares, if the 
New Shares are in scripless form, they have been cr edited into the Custodian 
account of the Issuer. 
The Issuer shall sell an amount of the NVDRs equal to the amount of 
New Warrants that the Underwriter has purchased on the Issuer’s behalf 
after the Issuer has received the certificates representing the New Warrants, if 
the New Warrants are in scripless form, they have b een credited into the 
Custodian account of the Issuer. 
(3) If the Underwriter is unable to purchase any Ne w Shares or Warrants at the 
price specified by the Issuer, the order to subscri be for the NVDRs shall be 
cancelled. The Underwriter must then return the pay ment for the subscription 
of the NVDRs to the Investor, within the Business Day after the date the Issuer 
has been informed of the Underwriter’s inability to fulfill the order. 
(4) If the Underwriter is able to purchase only a p ortion of the New Shares or 
Warrants, and there remain unpurchased New Shares o r Warrants according to 
the subscription order for New Shares or Warrants, the Underwriter shall 
purchase such portion of the New Shares or Warrants , and the remaining 
subscription order for NVDRs representing the unful filled subscription order 
for the New Shares or Warrants shall be cancelled. The Underwriter must then 
return the payment for the NVDRs in the amount equa l to the number of the 
New Shares or Warrants that were not able to be pur chased in accordance with 
the subscription order, to the Investor within the Business Day after the date 
the Issuer has been informed of the Underwriter’s inability to fulfill the order. 
(5) If the Target Company fails to apply for the li sting of the New Shares or 
Warrants on the Stock Exchange within the period sp ecified by the Stock 
Exchange, or the Stock Exchange refuses to list the  New Shares or Warrants, 
the Issuer shall purchase the NVDRs from the Invest or in the number that the 
Investor has purchased through the Underwriter. In this regard, the Investor 
shall either purchase or arrange for any Person to purchase the New Shares or 
Warrants from the Issuer within ninety (90) days from the date following (i) the 
last day of the listing period as specified by the Stock Exchange or (ii) the day 
the Stock Exchange has refused to list the New Shar es or Warrants, as the case 
may be.  After such ninety (90) day period, if the New Shares or Warrants still 
remain unsold, the Issuer shall have the right to s ell the New Shares or 
Warrants to any Person at the price the Issuer deem s appropriate and to 
 
  (    )   14 
purchase the NVDRs for the price that it receives f rom the sale of the New 
Shares or Warrants.   
The Issuer shall not be liable to the Investor or t o any other Person for any loss 
or damage if the sale price of the New Shares or Wa rrants sold by the Issuer is 
lower than the price at which those New Shares or W arrants were purchased 
from the Target Company. 
4.1.4 Procedures for Executing Board Lot Orders thr ough the Agent 
Upon receiving an order to purchase or sell the NVD Rs through the Agent, the Issuer 
shall take the following steps: 
(1) If the order to purchase or sell the NVDRs is e xecuted prior to the opening of 
the Stock Exchange, the Issuer shall, through the A gent, purchase or sell the 
Securities when the Stock Exchange opens for trading on the relevant day. 
(2) If the order to purchase the NVDRs is executed during the trading hours of the 
Stock Exchange, the Issuer shall, through the Agent, purchase the Securities under 
the applicable trading system during the trading hours of the Stock Exchange. 
(3) If the order to sell the NVDRs is executed duri ng the trading hours of the Stock 
Exchange, the Issuer shall, through the Agent, sell  the Securities under the 
applicable trading system during the trading hours of the Stock Exchange. 
(4) If the order to purchase or sell the Securities  is able to be executed, the Issuer 
shall sell or purchase the NVDRs according to the p rocedures outlined in (1), 
(2) or (3) above.  If the order is unable to be exe cuted, the Issuer may 
immediately cancel the order to purchase or sell th e NVDRs according to (1), 
(2) or (3) at the end of the trading day or in acco rdance with the conditions as 
specified by the Investor in the sale order. 
 4.1.5 Procedures for Executing Big Lot Orders thro ugh the Agent 
(1) Simultaneous Purchase and Sale of NVDRs 
In the event the Investor simultaneously executes orders to purchase and sell the 
same amount of NVDRs and where the trading value is not lower than the value 
specified by the Stock Exchange for Trade Report - Big Lot, the Issuer shall, 
through the Agent, purchase and sell the Securities  on the Stock Exchange 
according to the Stock Exchange trading procedures for  Trade Report - Big Lot.  
If the order to buy and sell the Securities can be confirmed, the Issuer shall 
purchase and sell the NVDRs in accordance with the orders placed by the 
Investor.   
(2) Execution of NVDR Purchase Orders Resulting in a P urchase of Securities by 
the Issuer 
If the Investor places an order to purchase the NVDRs with a trading value not 
lower than the value specified by the Stock Exchang e for Trade Report - Big 
Lot, the Issuer, having received such order, shall,  through the Agent, purchase 
the Securities on the Stock Exchange in accordance with the trading procedures 
for the Trade Report - Big Lot.  If the purchase or der is confirmed, the Issuer 
shall sell the NVDRs in accordance with the Investor’s purchase order.   
 
  (    )   15 
 (3) Execution of NVDR Sale Order Resulting in a Sale of Securities by the Issuer 
 If the Investor places an order to sell the NVDRs with the trading value not 
lower than the value specified by the Stock Exchang e for Trade Report - Big 
Lot, the Issuer, having received such order, shall,  through the Agent, sell the 
Securities on the Stock Exchange according to the t rading procedures for the 
Trade Report - Big Lot.  If the sale order is able to be confirmed, the Issuer 
shall purchase the NVDRs in accordance with the Investor’s sale order.   
4.1.6 Procedures for Executing Odd Lot Orders throu gh the Agent 
If the Investor places an order to purchase or sell  NVDRs in an amount less than the 
board lot specified by the Stock Exchange, the Issu er shall, through the Agent, 
purchase or sell the Securities on the Stock Exchan ge according to the trading 
procedures for the odd lot.  If the order to confir m the purchase or sale of Securities is 
made, the Issuer shall proceed in accordance with the Investor’s order.   
4.2 Transfer Procedures 
 Each Investor may transfer its NVDRs to other Inve stors and/or any Person, provided that such 
transfer shall be affected through the system of th e TSD according to the transfer procedures 
stipulated by the TSD. 
4.3 Exchange Procedures  
  
4.3.1 Exchange of Securities for NVDRs 
The Investor who owns Securities may, at any time, exchange those Securities for 
NVDRs,provided that such an exchange shall be made on the Stock Exchange by Trade 
Report method in the type of  Trade Report-Big Lot in accordance with Condition 4.1.5 
above. In the event of the amendment of any Thai Laws pertaining to restrictions on 
investment, if such an amendment grants the Investor the right to invest in NVDRs, 
such an Investor may exchange his/her Securities for NVDRs within three months of 
the date on which the notification has been posted on the Issuer’s website. Such 
exchange shall be done through the system of and according to the rules stipulated by 
the TSD and shall not be subject to the big lot transaction requirement. The exchange 
ratio is one Security to one NVDR. 
 4.3.2 Exchange of NVDRs for Securities  
  The Investor may, at anytime, exchange the NVDRs for Securities, provided that such 
an exchange shall be made on the Stock Exchange by Trade Report method in the type 
of Trade Report – Big Lot in accordance with Condit ion 4.1.5 above. The exchange 
ratio is one NVDR to one Security. In the event tha t an Investor, who is not of Thai 
nationality, wishes to deposit Securities, which have been converted from NVDRs, in a 
foreign securities depository account at the Deposi tory Center and the Depository 
Center has allowed such a deposit, the Issuer shall  exchange such NVDRs for 
Securities by doing so through the system of and ac cording to the rules stipulated by 
the TSD. 
5. Clearing and Settlement Procedures 
The clearing and settlement for the NVDRs shall be governed by the following rules: 
5.1 Clearing and Settlement where the Investor Subs cribes through the Underwriter 
 
  (    )   16 
(1) Clearing and settlement shall be carried out th rough the Underwriter. 
(2) Payment of the NVDRs must be made at the same t ime that the subscription order for 
the NVDRs is received. 
(3) The NVDRs shall be delivered in book-entry form  through the securities account 
opened with the TSD according to the specified regulations. 
5.2 Clearing and Settlement where the Investor Exec utes Purchase or Sale Orders through 
the Agent 
(1) Clearing and settlement shall be carried out th rough the Agent. 
(2) Clearing and settlement shall be carried out by  using the clearing and settlement 
system of the clearing house as specified by the Issuer and according to the regulations 
of the clearing house. 
(3) The NVDRs shall be delivered in book-entry form  through the securities account 
opened with the TSD according to the specified regulations. 
(4) Clearing and settlement shall be carried out ac cording to the agreement made between 
the Agent and the Investor in accordance with the c learing and settlement procedures 
between members of the Stock Exchange and their cli ents as specified by the Stock 
Exchange. 
5.3 Default in Payment and Delivery of NVDRs 
If the Agent does not settle the payment and/or fails to deliver the NVDRs or the Securities, as 
the case may be, as specified in Condition 5.2, not withstanding the fact that an Investor has already 
made the payment or delivered the NVDRs or the Securities, as the case may be, the Issuer shall cancel 
the transaction and shall not be responsible for an y damage incurred by such cancellation.  The Agent 
is responsible for the loss resulting from such act ion and may be fined in accordance with the contrac t 
between the Agent and the Issuer. 
6. Deposit of NVDRs and Securities 
6.1 Deposit of NVDRs 
When issued, the NVDRs shall be deposited in book e ntry form with the Investor’s Agent or 
Custodian. 
6.2 Deposit of Securities 
Securities purchased by the Issuer shall be deposit ed in book-entry form with the Custodian of 
the Issuer. 
7. Rights, Duties and Responsibilities 
7.1 Rights, Duties and Responsibilities of the Issu er  
 The Issuer shall have the following rights, duties  and responsibilities: 
Operation 
(a) Invest the proceeds derived from the sale of th e NVDRs to purchase the Securities. 
(b) Retain the right not to sell or purchase the NV DRs. 
 
  (    )   17 
(c) Purchase the NVDRs from the Investor if (a) the  Investor holds the NVDRs and the 
Shares in an aggregate of 25 percent or more of the total number of voting rights of the 
Target Company in accordance with Condition 3.1, (b) the New Shares or Warrants are 
unable to be listed on the Stock Exchange according  to Condition 4.1.3 (5) or (c) the 
Investor fails to provide instructions to the Issue r under Condition 10 . 
(d) Fine the Investor in the event the Investor fai ls to comply with its reporting 
requirements specified in Condition 3.2. 
(e) Disclose the holding of the NVDRs according to Condition 3.2.4 or provide the holding 
of  the NVDRs to the Target Company by request. 
 (f) Exchange the Securities for the NVDRs and vice  versa in accordance with Condition 4.3. 
(g) Obtain the Financial Benefits as the registered  holder of the Securities. 
(h) Attend and vote at the shareholder’s meeting of  the Target Company in accordance 
with Condition 8. 
(i) Issue and/or make adjustments to the amount of the NVDRs in the circumstances 
specified in Condition 11. 
(j) Alter or modify the Terms in accordance with Co ndition 12. 
(k) Terminate its investment in the Securities in a ccordance with Condition 13. 
(l) Make a notice in accordance with Condition 16. 
(m) Take any necessary steps and actions as the Iss uer deems appropriate against the 
Investor under applicable laws in order to have the  Investor comply with the Terms or 
to protect the rights of the Issuer or to comply with the Laws. 
(n)  Operate strictly in accordance with its object ives, Articles of Association and the 
Terms, as approved by the Office. 
Reimbursement of Expenses 
Being reimbursed by the Investor for expenses incur red from the exercise and/or delivery of 
Financial Benefits to the Investor, or from any other action in connection with the Securities (if any). 
Receipt and Delivery of Financial Benefits and Protection of Investors’ Financial Interests 
Arrange for the receipt and exercise of Financial Benefits by the Investors as specified in Condition 9. 
Other 
(a) Appoint the Underwriter and Agent in accordance  with the rules, conditions and 
procedures specified by the SEC. 
(b) Appoint the TSD as the Custodian of the Securit ies and the Registrar of the NVDRs. 
(c) Arrange for the deposit of the Securities into the custody of the Custodian. 
(d) Notify the Investor if any proposal has been ma de to delist the Securities from the 
Stock Exchange. 
 
  (    )   18 
(e) Notify the Investor, in accordance with Conditi on 10, if a tender offer has been made 
with respect to the Securities. 
(f) If there is an alteration or modification of th e Terms, submit the revised Terms to the 
Office within 15 days from the date of the relevant alteration or modification. 
7.2 Rights, Duties and Responsibilities of the Inve stors 
7.2.1 Rights of the Investors are as follows: 
(a) Entitled to Financial Benefits as specified in Condition 9. 
(b) Ability to purchase the NVDRs from and sell the  NVDR to the Issuer, transfer 
ownership of the NVDR to other Investors and/or any  Person, exchange the 
Securities for the NVDR and the NVDR for the Securi ties, all of which in 
accordance with Condition 4. 
(c) Provide the voting instruction to the Issuer fo r the meeting in accordance with 
Condition 8. 
 
(d) Able to arrange for or designate a Person to pu rchase or obtain the Securities in the 
case of (i) unlisted the New Shares or Warrants according to Condition 4.1.3(5) or 
(ii) the tender offer for the Securities according to Condition 10. 
7.2.2 The Investor has the following duties and responsibilities: 
(a) Deliver the NVDR and/or Securities and settle t he purchase of the NVDR as 
specified in Condition 5. 
(b) Report to the Issuer the holding of the NVDRs a nd the Securities and/or pay a 
fine as specified in Condition 3.2. 
(c) Sell the NVDRs to the Issuer in the event that (a) the number of NVDRs and/or 
the Shares reaches the threshold percentage specifi ed in Condition 3.1, (b) the 
New Shares or Warrants are unable to be listed on t he Stock Exchange in 
accordance with Condition 4.1.3 (5) or (c) the Inve stor does not provide 
instructions to the Issuer with respect to the tend er offer as described in 
Condition 10.  
 (d) Pay for expenses incurred by the Issuer in the  exercise of Financial Benefits 
and any other action in connection with the Securities. 
7.3      Limitation of Rights, Duties and Responsib ilities when investing in NVDRs representing 
Warrants or TSRs 
In the case where the Issuer is granted the right t o purchase the Warrants or the TSRs in 
Condition 9.2.2 or the Investor places an order to purchase or subscribe for NVDRs representing 
Warrants or TSRs in Condition 4. All except Conditi ons 3.1 (Investment Limitation) and 8 (Voting 
Rights) shall, to the extent applicable, apply to the NVDRs representing the Warrants or the TSR. 
 
8. Voting Rights  
 The Investor has no voting rights with respect to t heir Shares. The Issuer, as the registered          
 
  (    )   19 
and legal owner of the Shares, shall reserve the ri ght to attend the meeting of the shareholders of               
the Target Company but shall not vote unless the me eting has been called specifically to consider the 
de-listing of the Shares from the Stock Exchange. I n such a case, the Issuer shall, vote in accordance  
with the rules, procedures and conditions prescribed by the Issuer 
9. Receipt/Exercise of Financial Benefits of Invest ors 
The Issuer shall distribute the Financial Benefits to the Investor.  Any payment made by the 
Issuer under this Condition 9 shall be delivered at  the risk and expense of the Investor to the addres s 
recorded in the NVDR Register Book.  
9.1 Distribution of Dividend Received by the Issuer  
9.1.1 Cash Payment  
 The Issuer shall proceed with the following condit ions and procedures:  
 
(a) The Issuer shall make payments to the Investor equal to the amount of 
dividends it has received as the registered holder of the Shares. 
(b) Such payments shall be made to the Investors wh ose names appear in the 
NVDR Register Book as of the closing date of the NVDR Register Book or the 
Issuer’s Record Date, which shall be the same date as the closing date of the 
Share Register Book of the Target Company or the Ta rget Company’s Record 
Date for the right to receive dividends (as the case may be). 
(c) The Issuer shall allocate the amount of the div idend it receives from the Shares 
to the Investors in proportion to their holdings in  the NVDRs.  Such amount 
shall be notified and distributed to the Investor a s follows: (a) in the form of 
physical checks to the address of each Investor as specified in the NVDR 
Register Book or (b) direct funds transfer into the bank account of the Investor 
notified to the Registrar.  Such payment shall be m ade to the Investor within 
the time period and in accordance with the procedur es specified by the Issuer 
and shall be made in the same currency in which the  dividend for the Shares 
was made to the Issuer. 
9.1.2 Payment in the form of the Shares 
 In the event the Issuer receives a dividend in the  form of New Shares, the Issuer shall 
proceed as follows: 
(a) The Issuer shall issue additional NVDRs equal t o the number of New Shares to 
the Investors whose names appear in the NVDR Regist er Book as of the 
closing date of the NVDR Register Book or the Issue r’s Record Date, which 
shall be the same date as the closing date of the S hare Register Book of the 
Target Company or the Target Company’s Record Date for the right to receive 
dividends (as the case may be). 
(b) The Issuer shall allocate the said additional N VDRs to the Investors in 
proportion to their holdings in the NVDRs.  This allocation shall be notified to 
the Investors and the additional NVDRs shall be del ivered to the Investors in 
the same manner as NVDRs are delivered to Investors  in accordance with a 
transaction to purchase NVDRs from the Issuer. 
 
 
  (    )   20 
9.2  Rights to Subscribe for Additional NVDR 
9.2.1 If the Issuer receives the right to subscribe for additional Shares, it shall proceed as follows: 
(a) The Issuer shall inform the Investors immediate ly upon receipt of notice from 
the Target Company.   
(b) The Issuer shall grant the right to purchase ad ditional NVDRs to the Investors 
whose names appear in the NVDR Register Book as of the closing date of the 
NVDR Register Book or the Issuer’s Record Date, whi ch shall be the same 
date as the closing date of the Share Register Book  of the Target Company or 
the Target Company’s Record Date for the right to s ubscribe for New Shares 
on a rights offering basis (as the case may be). 
  The Investor must submit its request to subscribe  for additional NVDRs, 
together with payment at the price to be same as th ose of the New Shares, to 
the Issuer or the person who is assigned by the Iss uer to submit its request to 
subscribe and make payment for the purchase of the New Shares to the Target 
Company within the specified period.  This period s hall be the same as the 
period set by the Target Company for the Issuer to purchase the New Shares. 
 
(c) The Issuer shall exercise its rights to purchas e the New Shares in the same 
amount as the Investors’ wishes to subscribe for ad ditional NVDRs.  The 
Issuer, upon receipt of the New Shares, shall issue  and deliver the NVDRs to 
the Investor in the amount equal to the number of N ew Shares being allocated 
to the Issuer and in the same manner as the NVDRs a re delivered to the 
Investor in accordance with a purchase of NVDRs by the Investor. 
9.2.2 In the case where the Issuer is granted the r ight to purchase the Warrants or the TSRs, 
the Issuer shall sell additional NVDRs to the Investor in accordance with the same 
procedures specified in Condition 9.2.1.   
9.2.3 If the Issuer has the right to purchase the S hares in the case where the Investor has placed 
an order to purchase or subscribe for NVDRs representing Warrants or TSR in accordance 
with the same procedures specified in Condition 4, the Issuer shall sell NVDRs to the 
Investor in accordance with the same procedures specified in Condition 9.2.1. 
 
9.3 Sale of NVDRs by the Investor in case of Tender  Offer 
(1) If a tender offer is made to purchase the Secur ities from the shareholders of the Target 
Company, the Issuer shall purchase the NVDRs from t he Investor, at the Investor’s 
option, at the offeror’s tender offer price. 
(2) The Issuer shall announce the purchase of NVDRs  to the Investors immediately upon 
receipt of the tender offer notice from the offeror . If the Investors wish to sell the 
NVDRs so that the Issuer is able to sell the Securi ties, the Investors must submit their 
requests to sell the NVDRs together with the delive ry of the NVDRs to the Issuer 
within the period specified by the Issuer.  Such pe riod shall be set in accordance with 
the period determined by the offeror for the Issuer  to submit the request to sell and 
deliver the Securities under the tender offer.  The  NVDRs shall be delivered in the 
same manner applicable to the normal purchase of NVDRs by the Issuer in accordance 
with these Terms. 
 
  (    )   21 
(3) The Issuer shall settle payment for the NVDRs b y either of the following methods: (a) 
physical checks to the address of each Investor as specified in the NVDR Register 
Book or (b) direct funds transfer into the bank acc ount of the Investor notified to the 
Registrar.  Such payment shall be made to the Inves tor within the time period and in 
accordance with the procedures specified by the Iss uer and shall be made in the same 
currency in which the payment for the Securities was made to the Issuer. 
(4) If the offeror has established rules and condit ions in connection with the tender offer 
for the Securities, the Issuer shall be entitled to establish the same rules and conditions 
in connection with the purchase of the NVDRs. 
 
9.4 Other Financial Benefits 
If other Financial Benefits have been granted to th e Issuer with respect to the Securities, the 
Issuer shall distribute such Financial Benefits to the Investor in the manner to be specified by 
the Issuer.  Any withholdings or expenses arising from or in connection with the distribution of 
such Financial Benefits to the Investor shall be bo rne by the Investor and may be deducted 
from any sum payable to the Investor by the Issuer. 
10. Mandatory Purchase of NVDRs in case of Delistin g 
If a tender offer is made to purchase the Shares as  a result of the approval of the Stock 
Exchange to de-list the Shares, the following procedure shall apply: 
(1) the Issuer shall inform each Investor of the te nder offer so that the Investor may sell the 
NVDRs to the Issuer at the tender offer price. 
(2) Investor shall instruct the Issuer to sell the Securities either (a) to the offeror or (b) to 
such Investor or any Person designated by the Investor, and in each case, the Issuer shall 
distribute the proceeds derived from the sale to the Investor.  In both cases the Investor 
must deliver the NVDRs to the Issuer within the period specified by the Issuer.  
(3) If the Investor has not instructed the Issuer i n accordance with Condition 10(2)(a) or 
(b) prior to the last day specified by the Issuer, the Issuer shall sell the Securities to the 
offeror and purchase the NVDRs from the Investor.  The Issuer shall make payment to 
the Investor in the amount equal to the price at wh ich the offeror has agreed to 
purchase Securities in the tender offer.  The Issuer shall not be liable to the Investor for 
any loss or damage arising from or in connection wi th its sale of the Securities to the 
offeror in accordance with this Condition 10 (3). 
11. Additional NVDRs and Adjustment   
The Issuer shall issue additional NVDRs or make adjustment to the amount of the NVDRs held 
by the Investors as follows: 
(a) If the Issuer receives a dividend in the form o f New Shares in accordance with 
Condition 9.1. 
(b) If the Issuer receives a rights issues to purchase New Shares in accordance with 
Condition 9.2. 
(c) If the Issuer is granted the right to purchase the Warrants or TSRs in accordance with 
Condition 9.2 . 
 
  (    )   22 
(d) If and when there is a change in the par value of the Shares resulting in an increase or 
decrease in the amount of the Shares, the Issuer sh all increase or decrease the number 
of NVDRs held by the Investor accordingly. 
(e) If and when there is a reduction in the paid-up  capital of the Target Company by way of a 
reduction of the number of the Shares which results in a decrease in the number of the 
Shares held by the Issuer, the Issuer shall decrease the NVDRs held by the Investor so 
that the number of the NVDRs is equal to the number of the Shares held by the Issuer.  
(f) If an event occurs which is similar to any even t described in 11(a) to (e), the Issuer 
shall adjust to the number of NVDRs held by the Inv estor as it deems appropriate, in 
its sole discretion. 
In the event any Investor holds the NVDRs in certif icated form, the Investor shall return such 
certificates to the Issuer so that the Issuer is ab le to issue a new certificate to reflect any 
adjustments made to the number of NVDRs held by the Investor.  The NVDR certificate that is 
returned to the Issuer shall be cancelled.  Any fee s and expenses arising from or in connection 
with the issuance of the new NVDR certificate shall be borne by the Investor. 
12. Alterations or Modifications of the Terms 
The Terms may be altered or modified as follows: 
(1) The Issuer proposes changes to and obtains appr oval from the Office. 
(2) The Investor has passed a resolution approved b y a majority of the Investors holding an 
aggregate number of more than half of the total iss ued and outstanding NVDRs 
representing the Shares of the Target Company and t he Issuer has also consented to 
such resolution. 
(3) The Issuer may alter or modify the Terms withou t obtaining consent from either the 
Office or the Investors if such alternation or modification: 
 (a) Does not, in the opinion of the Issuer, materi ally prejudice the interest of the 
Investors; or 
 (b) Is, in the opinion of the Issuer, of a formal,  minor or technical nature or to 
correct a manifest error or to comply with the applicable law. 
The Issuer shall notify all the Investors of such a lterations and modifications and 
print the announcement in at least one English dail y newspaper within fifteen (15) 
days from the date the approval was granted by the Office, or the date when the 
resolution was passed, or the date the Issuer has made such alteration or modification, 
as the case may be. 
13. Cessation of the Issuance of NVDRs and Investme nt in the Securities 
The Issuer has the right not to issue any NVDRs nor  invest in the Securities if there is the 
investment limitation on the percentage of Shares i n certain businesses under applicable Law, no 
foreign shareholding limitation applicable to the Target Company or there are no outstanding NVDRs 
held by any Investor at the time the issuance is requested or required in accordance with these Terms 
13/1  Termination of Rights, Duties and Responsibil ities of the Issuer  
13/1.1 Rights, duties and responsibilities of the I nvestor and the Issuer prescribed in the 
prospectus except for the rights to receive the cer tificates of the Securities according to 
 
  (    )   23 
Condition 13/1.2 (3) shall be terminated upon the o ccurrence of any of the following 
specified events: 
(1) In the case where the Securities are mandatorily de listed without a tender offer 
for such Securities, or 
(2) In the case where the NVDRs are delisted  
13/1.2 Upon the occurrence of any events specified in condition 1, the issuer has the 
following rights:  
(1) not to issue any NVDRs nor invest in the Securi ties.  
(2) to enforce redemption of the NVDRs from the Inv estor. 
(3) to deliver  the certificates of the Securities to the Investors whose name appeared 
in the NVDR Register Book or a list of the owner of  the NVDRs made by the 
Agent on the date specified by the Issuer. 
13/1.3 The Investor shall have no right to take any  action, whether legal or otherwise, 
against the Issuer arising from or in connection with its holding of the NVDRs or against any 
actions of the Issuer prescribed above. 
14. Accounting Period of the Issuer 
The accounting period of the Issuer shall run from January 1 to December 31 each year, except 
for the first year, when the accounting period shall commence on October 4 to December 31, 2000. 
15. Registrar of the NVDR  
The Issuer has appointed the TSD to act as the Regi strar of the NVDRs and to prepare and 
maintain the NVDR Register Book in accordance with the rules and procedures specified by the SEC. 
16. Notice   
All notices to the Investors will be validly given if published in website of the Stock Exchange located 
at: www.set.or.th/nvdr. Notices shall be deemed to have been given on the date the notice was first 
published. 
17. Governing Law and Jurisdiction  
17.1 Governing Law 
 These Terms shall be governed by, and construed in  accordance with, the laws of Thailand. 
17.2 Jurisdiction 
 The Investor agrees that the courts of Thailand sh all have jurisdiction to hear and determine any 
suit or action or proceeding and to settle any disp utes, which may arise out of or in connection 
with the NVDRs, and the Investor irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts. 
 
 
 
  (    )   24 
PART 6 
 
THAI TAXATION CONSIDERATIONS FOR NON-RESIDENT INVESTORS 
This summary is only intended to address the Thai t axation considerations of non-resident 
Investors intending to purchase the NVDRs.  Also, t his summary is only a guideline and does not 
purport to be a comprehensive description of all of  the tax considerations that may be relevant to a 
decision to purchase NVDRs.  Investors considering the purchase, ownership or disposition of NVDRs 
should consult their own tax advisors concerning th e taxation consequences in Thailand in light of 
their particular situation as well as any consequen ces arising under the laws of any other taxing 
jurisdiction and any tax treaty between Thailand an d their country of residence. The following 
summary is based upon the applicable tax laws of Th ailand and their interpretations in effect on the 
date of this Prospectus. 
General  
In general, the registered owner of securities will be entitled to receive dividends, capital gains 
or benefits arising from those securities under the  laws of Thailand.  In the case of the Shares, the 
Issuer will be regarded as the owner of the Shares and will be entitled to receive dividends and capit al 
gains arising from the Shares.  The Issuer is exemp t from income tax on dividends derived from 
holding the Shares and from capital gains derived from the sale of the Shares pursuant to Royal Decree 
No. 337 B.E. 2544 (A.D. 2001) (the “ Royal Decree ”).   
Interest or other similar income derived from the N VDRs will be treated as income under 
Section 40(4)(a) of the Thai Revenue Code B.E. 2481 (A.D. 1938).  Capital gains on the transfer of the 
NVDRs will also be treated as income under Section 40(4)(g). 
Non-Resident Individual Investors 
 In considering whether an Investor is a resident i n Thailand, Thai law does not look at the 
nationality of the Investor but will determine whet her the Investor has been in Thailand for an 
aggregate of more than 180 days during the tax (cal endar) year.   If so, the Investor will be deemed t o 
be a resident in Thailand for tax purposes.   
Under Thai tax law, payments that the Issuer has made to the holders of the NVDRs as a result 
of the Issuer’s receipt of dividends from the under lying Shares is considered a payment equivalent to 
the payment of dividends (the “ Substituted Payment for Dividends ”).  
Substituted Payment for Dividends.  Substituted Payment for Dividends received by the 
Investor is subject to 15% withholding tax, which w ill be withheld by the Issuer.  In response to the 
intention to apply the same treatments as if the In vestor holds the Shares in its own name, the 
withholding tax rate will be reduced from 15% to 10% in accordance with the Royal Decree. 
Capital Gains.  A capital gain derived from the sale of the NVDRs is exempt from Thai tax. 
Non-Resident Corporate Investors  
A non-resident company and registered partnership i s a company or registered partnership 
established pursuant to a foreign law and not doing or deemed to be doing business in Thailand or have 
a permanent establishment in Thailand.  
 Substituted Payment for Dividends.   Same as those described for Non-Resident Individu al 
Investors.  
 Capital Gains.  A capital gain from the sale of the NVDRs by a non-resident company or  
 
 
  (    )   25 
registered partnership is subject to withholding ta x of 15%, which may be exempted under the terms 
and conditions of the relevant double taxation treaty between Thailand and the country of the Investor’s 
residence. 
Stamp Duty  
 There is no stamp duty payable on the sale of the NVDRs. 
 
 
 
  (    )   26 
PART 7 
 
REFERENCED PERSONS 
 
Issuer’s Custodian 
The Thailand Securities Depository Company Limited 
93 The Stock Exchange of Thailand Building,  
Ratchadaphisek Road,Dindaeng, Dindaeng, 
Bangkok 10400  
Tel. (66) 2009 9433-43 Fax. (66) 2009 9476 
 
The Registrar 
The Thailand Securities Depository Company Limited 
93 The Stock Exchange of Thailand Building,  
Ratchadaphisek Road,Dindaeng, Dindaeng, 
Bangkok 10400  
Tel. (66) 2009 9433-43 Fax. (66) 2009 9476 
 
The SEC 
Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand 
333/3 Viphavadi Rangsit RoadChomphon, Chatuchak 
 Bangkok 10900 
 
Tel. (662) 695-9999 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 