 Tax - The Stock Exchange of Thailand Search Symbol / Factsheet Market Data Market Data Overview Overview Products Stock ETF DR DW TFEX Indices SET Index FTSE SET Index FTSE ASEAN Index Total Return Index (TRI) Stock Calendar Market Data and Statistics Market Overview Stock Quotes Top 10 Investor Types 5-days Market Summary NVDR Short Sales Program Trading Value Market Statistics News and Market Alerts News Market Alerts Trading Halt, Suspension and Pause Auto Pause/Dynamic Price Band Triggered Securities Cash Balance Trading Signs Auditor's Opinion Upcoming IPO Listed Company Presentation Digital Roadshow List of Companies/Securities Companies/Securities in Focus Download List of Listed Companies Download Possible Delisting Companies List of Securities Eligible for Short List of Companies, Constituents and ISIN List of Thai ESG Securities List of Listed Companies in JUMP+ Program Related Information Trading Procedure List of Members Taxation Investor Protection Investor Services Companies / Securities Issuer Services Issuer Services Overview Overview Equity Issuance Listing on SET Common Stock REIT IFF IFT Listing Services IPOs Upcoming IPOs IPOs Statistics First Trading Day IPO Performance Search for Listed Securities Listed Company Simplified Regulations Issuance of Financial Instruments Sustainable Development Services for Listed Companies List of Companies / Securities Companies/Securities in Focus Download List of Listed Companies Download Possible Delisting Companies List of Securities Eligible for Short List of Companies, Constituents and ISIN Digital Roadshow Issuance of Other Instruments ETF DR DW JUMP+ Program Thailand Focus Rules and Regulations Rules & Regulations Overview Overview Rules and Regulations Issuers Members Trading TCH TSD Registrar TFEX Regulations Search Regulations Circular Letters Forms Market Alert Enforcement Market Consultation Regulatory Statistics New Regulations Services Services Overview Overview Connectivity and Data Services Connectivity Market Data Trading Services Front Office and Internet Trading Derivatives Back Office Fund Integrated Services Post-Trade Services TCH TSD Registrar Investor Services Technology and Infrastructure Services FundConnext Onboarding e-Stamp Duty Payment Platform Listed Company Services Members Services Membership Connecting to the Trading System Institutional Services Direct Market Access (DMA) Algorithmic Trading ISV Research Research Overview Overview Research Market Updates Articles and Research Papers Research Search About SET About SET Overview Overview SET Overview History & Roles Mission & Vision Board of Governors Managements SET CG Principles Annual Report and Financial Statement Careers SET Group SET Group and Shareholding Structure TFEX TCH TSD settrade Thai NVDR TDX DAP FiNNET LiVE Contact Us SET and Sustainable Development SET Holiday Whistleblowing Policy Home Market Information ... Tax Related information Taxation on Equities Investment Thai taxes applicable to investors in listed companies are as outlined below: Taxation of Thai or foreign investors doing business in Thailand Types of Income (From direct investment in SET/TFEX) Tax Rate Capital Gains* Individual Investor Juristic Investor Tax exempt No withholding tax but must pay corporate income tax as stipulated by law. Dividends Individual Investor 10% withholding tax on any dividend income from listed or limited companies. 10% withholding tax on any mutual fund dividend income; or include such income in year-end taxes. Dividends from any company promoted by the Board of Investment are tax exempt. Juristic Investor 10% withholding tax if the taxpayer is not a listed company. Tax exempt if the taxpayer is a listed company and has held the related shares or investment units for three or more months before and after the date of dividend payment. Tax exempt if: (a) the taxpayer is a juristic entity holding 25% or more of the votable shares of the firm issuing dividends; and (b) the issuing company does not hold any shares issued by the taxpayer. However, the taxpayer must have held the related shares or investment units for three or more months before and after the date of dividend payment. Dividends from any company promoted by the Board of Investment are tax exempt. Interest Income: Individual Investor 15% withholding tax. Juristic Investor 1% withholding tax. No withholding tax on interest paid by a commercial bank to a finance company, securities company, credit foncier company, or other commercial bank. Taxation of foreign investors not doing business in Thailand Types of Income (From direct investment in SET/TFEX) Tax Rate Capital Gains* Individual Investor Juristic Investor Tax-exempt 15% withholding tax Dividends Individual Investor 10% withholding tax on any dividend income from listed or limited companies. 10% withholding tax on any mutual fund dividend income; or include such income in year-end taxes. Dividends from any company promoted by the Board of Investment are tax exempt. Individual Investor Juristic Investor 10% withholding tax 10% withholding tax Interest Income: Individual Investor Juristic Investor 15% withholding tax. 15% withholding tax. Note* : Capital gains taxes are the same whether trading occurs on the Thailand Futures Exchange Pcl (TFEX) or on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET). Double Taxation Treaties So as to alleviate and eliminate duplicate taxation for certain foreign investors and thereby encourage foreign investment, the Revenue Department has negotiated and signed Double Taxation Agreements (DTA) with 57 countries. Foreigners from the countries listed below are exempt from taxes on capital gains. *Data current as of September 2014 30 countries are exempted from capital gains taxes 27 countries are not exempted from capital gains taxes without condition with conditions apply 1. Denmark 1. Netherlands 1. Malaysia 2. Germany 2. United Kingdom & North Ireland 2. Philippines 3. France 3. Canada 3. Republic of Poland 4. Singapore 4. Switzerland 4. Republic of Finland 5. Italy 5. Israel 5. Republic of Austria 6. Belgium 6. Spain 6. People's Republic of China 7. Pakistan 7. Uzbekistan 7. Kingdom of Sweden 8. India 8. Cyprus 8. Hungary 9. Laos 9. Norway 9. Australia 10. Mauritius 10. Slovenia 10. Sri Lanka 11. Bangladesh 11. Turkey 11. Japan 12. The United Arab Emirates 12. Hong Kong 12. Vietnam 13. Oman 13. Myanmar 13. Czech Republic 14. Taiwan 14. South Korea 14. South Africa 15. Kuwait 15. Romania 16. Republic of Estonia 16. The United States of America 17. Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 18. The Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal 19. New Zealand 20. Bulgaria 21. The Republic of Armenia 22. Indonesia 23. Kingdom of Bahrain 24. Ukraine 25. Republic of Seychelles 26. The Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic 27. The Republic of Chile (Investors should verify the correctness of the information and conditions of tax exemption under Double Taxation Agreements (DTA) on the Revenue Department’s website: www.rd.go.th .) Value Added Tax (VAT) Investors must pay 7% VAT on service fees and commissions charged by securities brokerage companies. Stamp Duty (Instrument transferring) Under the Thai Revenue Code, both foreign and domestic transferors of share or debenture certificates must pay for duty stamps, to be affixed to the certificates (if any) according to the share’s book value or the price on the transfer instrument (whichever is greater). The stamp duty rate is THB1 for every THB 1,000 or fraction thereof. However, the following transfers are exempt from stamp duty: Transfers of Thai government bonds. Transfers of listed securities for which the Thailand Securities Depository Co., Ltd. (TSD) is the registrar. Note: Contents of this web site are provided for preliminary information and educational purposes only, and are not to be construed as advice or recommendations. The Stock Exchange of Thailand including the Thailand Futures Exchange Pcl., accept no liability, direct or indirect, for decisions made based on the information contained herein. As laws and regulations may be amended without notice at any time, investors should consider the correctness of the information or seek the advice of professionals before using it in decision-making. The contents contained in this website are provided for informative and educational purpose only. SET does not make any representations and hereby disclaims with respect to this website. Contact Us Careers FAQ SET Contact Center +66 2009 9999 SET Group Websites Links Sitemap SETinvestnow settrade.com TFEX LiVE Platform Thai NVDR SETSMART TCH TSD DAP Finnet TDX SET Link Sustainability SET Social Impact CMA Maruey INVESTORY Goverment and Regulator Ministry of Finance Ministry of Commerce Bank of Thailand (BOT) The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Fiscal Policy Office Association and Federation Federation of Thai Capital Market Organizations (FETCO) Association of Securities Companies (ASCO) Association of Investment Management Companies (AIMC) Investment Analysts Association (IAA) Thai Listed Companies Association Thai Investors Association The Thai Bond Market Association The Thai Bankers' Association (TBA) The Institute of Internal Auditors of Thailand (IIAT) Thai Institute of Directors Association Thai Venture Capital Association Federation of Accounting Professions The Federation of Thai Industries The Thai Chamber of Commerce & Board of Trade of Thailand International Organization Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation (AOSEF) International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) Terms & Conditions of Use | Privacy Center | Cookies Policy | Third Party Terms © Copyright 2022 The Stock Exchange of Thailand 