THE JOURNAL OF FINANCE • VOL. LXVII, NO. 3 • JUNE 2012




           The Real Effects of Financial Markets:
            The Impact of Prices on Takeovers

                 ALEX EDMANS, ITAY GOLDSTEIN, and WEI JIANG∗


                                            ABSTRACT
       Using mutual fund redemptions as an instrument for price changes, we identify a
       strong effect of market prices on takeover activity (the “trigger effect”). An interquar-
       tile decrease in valuation leads to a seven percentage point increase in acquisition
       likelihood, relative to a 6% unconditional takeover probability. Instrumentation ad-
       dresses the fact that prices are endogenous and increase in anticipation of a takeover
       (the “anticipation effect”). Our results overturn prior literature that finds a weak
       relation between prices and takeovers without instrumentation. These findings im-
       ply that financial markets have real effects: They impose discipline on managers by
       triggering takeover threats.




DOES A LOW MARKET valuation make a firm a takeover target? In theory, if acqui-
sition prices are related to market prices, acquirers can profit from taking over a
firm whose market value is low relative to its peers—due either to mispricing or
mismanagement—and restore it to its potential. Indeed, in practice, acquirers
and other investors appear to track a firm’s valuation multiples for indications
on the potential for acquisition, and managers strive to maintain high market
valuations to prevent a hostile takeover. Understanding whether such a link
exists is important because, if so, this would suggest that the market is not a
sideshow, but rather exerts a powerful disciplinary effect on firm management
(as suggested by Marris (1964), Manne (1965), and Jensen (1993)).
   Despite the above logic, existing empirical studies on takeovers fail to sys-
tematically uncover a meaningful relationship between market valuations


    ∗ Edmans is from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, NBER, and ECGI. Goldstein

is from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Jiang is from Columbia Business School.
For helpful comments and discussions, we thank the Editor (Cam Harvey), two anonymous refer-
ees, an Associate Editor, Jack Bao, Thomas Bates, Jonathan Berk, Philip Bond, Jess Cornaggia,
Todd Gormley, Dirk Hackbarth, Ayla Kayhan, Alexander Ljungqvist, Ernst Maug, Konrad Menzel,
Randall Morck, Stew Myers, Lalitha Naveen, Gordon Phillips, Michael Roberts, Jacob Sagi, Jeremy
Stein, and seminar participants at Columbia, Drexel, Georgia State, HBS, HEC Paris, HKUST,
Houston, Mannheim, MIT Sloan, SUNY Binghamton, Temple, Tilburg, UNC, UT Dallas, Yale,
AFA, Caesarea Center Conference, FIRS, LSE Paul Woolley Center Conference, NBER, the UBC
Summer Conference, and the Washington University Conference on Corporate Finance. Robert
Ready and Carrie Wu provided valuable research assistance. Edmans gratefully acknowledges
the Goldman Sachs Research Fellowship from the Rodney White Center for Financial Research.
This paper was previously circulated under the title “Takeover Activity and Target Valuations:
Feedback Loops in Financial Markets.”

                                                  933
934                        The Journal of FinanceR

and takeover probabilities. While Cremers, Nair, and John (2009) and Bates,
Becher, and Lemmon (2008) find a negative (but economically insignifi-
cant) relation between takeover likelihood and Tobin’s Q, Palepu (1986) and
Ambrose and Megginson (1992) uncover no link and Rhodes-Kropf, Robinson
and Viswanathan (2005) document that market-to-book ratios of targets are
in fact higher than those of control firms. Agrawal and Jaffe (2003) further
find that targets do not exhibit inferior prior stock performance to peer firms.
These results cast doubt on the received wisdom that market valuations create
a takeover threat that forces managers to improve firm performance.
   We argue that there is a fundamental challenge to finding a relation between
market prices and takeover activity in the data. While markets may exhibit
a trigger effect, whereby a decrease in market valuation due to mispricing or
mismanagement induces a takeover attempt, market prices are endogenous
and affected by other factors that may attenuate the above relationship and
make it difficult to detect empirically. There are three potential sources of
endogeneity. First, an anticipation effect may lead to reverse causality from
takeover activity to market valuations, with forward-looking prices inflated by
the probability of a future takeover. Second, there may be omitted variables
correlated with both takeover probabilities and market valuations. For exam-
ple, if a technology shock creates the potential for synergies, it may increase
a firm’s probability of becoming a takeover target and its market price at the
same time. In both of the above cases, even if a low valuation attracts an ac-
quisition, a high valuation may indicate that an acquisition is probable, thus
attenuating any relationship between valuation and takeover probability in
the data. Third, there may be measurement error. As indicated in the opening
paragraph, we hypothesize that the true driver of takeover attempts is a de-
cline in a firm’s market valuation below its potential—due either to mispricing
or mismanagement. A firm’s raw market valuation is quite different from the
firm’s valuation discount and thus likely an inaccurate measure of it, biasing
the measured coefficient toward zero.
   In this paper, we adopt a new approach that represents a first step toward
overcoming the above endogeneity issues and cleanly identifying the trigger
effect from market prices to takeover activity. Our approach consists of two
major deviations from the existing literature. First, prior literature studies the
effect of raw valuations (such as price-to-earnings or market-to-book ratios)
on takeover likelihood. However, a low raw valuation may not indicate under-
performance and thus a need for a corrective action, as it may be driven by
irremediably low quality (e.g., because the firm is mature and in a competitive
industry). We thus construct a “discount” measure of the difference between
a firm’s current market valuation and potential value. This discount aims to
measure undervaluation due to mismanagement or mispricing, and in turn the
value that an acquirer can create by restoring a firm to its potential. Therefore,
it has a theoretical link to the likelihood that a firm becomes targeted by a
bidder. We estimate a firm’s potential value using tools from the literature on
stochastic frontier analysis, based on the values of other firms in the industry
or with similar basic fundamentals.
                        The Real Effects of Financial Markets                             935

   Second, we employ an instrumental variable that directly affects the market
price, but that affects takeover probability only via its effect on the market
price. Conceptually, this is a difficult problem: any variable that is directly
associated with the firm’s characteristics or management would not qualify as
an instrument since it is directly related to both the price and the probabil-
ity of a takeover. Hence, while the trigger effect is based on the idea that price
decreases due to either mismanagement or mispricing will induce a takeover at-
tempt, identifying it requires a measure of mispricing alone, that is, a variable
that changes the price but not due to issues related to the firm’s fundamentals
or management.
   Friction-driven mispricing events have been the subject of a large recent
literature in finance, as summarized by Duffie (2010) in his presidential address
to the American Finance Association. Building on this literature, we construct
a measure of price pressure induced by mutual funds not due to informational
reasons but rather to flows they face from investors. The idea follows from Coval
and Stafford (2007), who document that large flows by mutual fund investors
lead prices of stocks held by the funds to shift away from fundamental value for
prolonged periods of time. While Coval and Stafford (2007) investigate actual
trades executed by mutual funds, they may not be a valid instrument in our
context if funds are trading deliberately based on private information on a firm’s
likely takeover potential. We instead study mutual funds’ hypothetical trades
mechanically induced by flows by their own investors. We argue that fund
investors’ decisions to accumulate or divest mutual fund shares are unlikely
to be directly correlated with the takeover prospects of individual firms held
by the fund. An investor who wishes to speculate on the takeover likelihood
of an individual firm will trade the stock of that firm rather than a mutual
fund share.1 Hence, investor flows lead to price pressure that may affect the
probability of a takeover but are not directly motivated by this probability.
We find that our measure causes significant price changes followed by slow
reversal that ends with full correction only after about 2 years.
   Our analysis uncovers a statistically and economically significant effect of
market prices on takeover probabilities. First, our discount measure exhibits
a more significant correlation with takeover probabilities than the valuation
measures used previously in the literature: an interquartile change in the dis-
count is associated with a one percentage point increase in takeover probability
in the following year. Second, our main result shows that, by accounting for the
endogeneity of the discount and instrumenting it with mutual fund investors’
flows, the trigger effect rises substantially: an interquartile change in the dis-
count causes a seven percentage point increase in takeover probability in the
following year. This is both statistically significant and economically important
relative to the 6.2% unconditional probability that an average firm receives a
takeover bid in a particular year.


  1 Importantly, we exclude mutual funds that specialize in specific industries, to ensure that

investors’ flows are not driven by a takeover wave among many firms held by the fund.
936                               The Journal of FinanceR

   We also use our results to shed light on the determinants of market prices
in equilibrium. Inspecting the gap between the equilibrium correlation be-
tween discounts and takeover probabilities and the causal effect of discounts
on takeover probabilities (i.e., comparing our estimated trigger effects without
and with instrumentation), our results imply that, for the average firm, a one
percentage point increase in the probability of a takeover next year reduces the
current discount by 1.2 percentage points. Since takeover premium is, on aver-
age, 40% of market value, one-third of this estimated decrease in discount (0.4
percentage points) can be directly attributed to the anticipation of a takeover
in the following year. The remainder could result from other factors, such as
the technology-driven synergies mentioned above or anticipation of takeovers
in future years.
   Our findings have a number of implications for takeover markets. First
and foremost, the trigger effect implies that financial markets are not just
a sideshow. They have a real effect on corporate events such as takeovers and
thus on firm value. In this respect, our paper adds to existing evidence on the
real effects of financial markets, such as Baker, Stein, and Wurgler (2003) and
Chen, Goldstein, and Jiang (2007).2 While these previous papers identify real
effects via comparative statics (showing that the sensitivity of real decisions
to prices increases in some firm characteristic that is hypothesized to augment
the importance of prices), our paper identifies it directly. In particular, we are
the first to use an instrumental variable to capture the effect of exogenous price
changes on corporate events.
   In general, market prices will affect takeover activity if they are related to
expected future acquisition prices. This may happen for a couple of reasons.
First, as in models by Fishman and Hagerty (1992), Dow and Gorton (1997), and
Goldstein and Guembel (2008), decision makers may learn from market prices
to guide their actions. In a takeover context, this argument is more complex.
For prices to affect takeover likelihood (rather than just the price paid in a
takeover), there must be an asymmetry in learning between the acquirer and
the target’s shareholders. For example, suppose that target shareholders learn
the firm’s true value from the market price and thus demand a takeover price
that is closely linked to the market price (e.g., a certain premium above market
price),3 but the acquirer has additional information on the firm’s potential value
under his management and so the value of the target to him is less sensitive
to the market price. In this case, a decrease in target valuation will increase
the potential gain for the acquirer and thus the likelihood of a bid. Note that
to date the possibility of asymmetric learning has not yet been incorporated
into the theoretical takeover literature. Our empirical findings thus call for
a modification of the existing takeover theories. Second, market participants
may anchor on the price, as in Baker, Pan, and Wurgler (2012). For example,
  2 For an early discussion, see Morck, Shleifer, and Vishny (1990).
   3 Schwert (1996) provides related evidence, finding that the offer price increases almost dollar-

for-dollar with the target’s pre-bid runup. He argues that the higher offer price may be justified by
the target’s greater perceived value based on new information from the runup. He does not explore
the effect on takeover probability.
                         The Real Effects of Financial Markets                              937

practitioners often study premia to the market price in related past deals to
estimate an appropriate premium to offer in the current transaction (known as
“precedent transactions analysis”).
   Interestingly, the active role of financial markets implies that any factor that
influences prices can also influence takeover activity (and other real actions).
Therefore, mispricing (e.g., due to market frictions or investor errors) can have
real consequences by impacting takeovers. Our paper is therefore related to
the behavioral corporate finance literature (surveyed by Baker, Ruback, and
Wargler (2007)). In particular, Dong et al. (2006) use a firm’s multiple as an
indicator for mispricing and link it to takeover activity. Unlike us, they do not
model the relationship between prices and takeovers as a simultaneous sys-
tem or use an instrumental variable to identify the effect of exogenous price
changes, but instead focus on the equilibrium correlation between the valua-
tion multiples and takeovers. Note that, in the behavioral corporate finance
literature, temporary overvaluation often improves a firm’s fundamental value
as it allows managers to raise capital or undertake acquisitions at favorable
prices (e.g., Stein (1996), Shleifer and Vishny (2003)). Here, it can reduce fun-
damental value by deterring value-creating takeovers.
   Second, regarding the anticipation effect, our results demonstrate the illu-
sory content of stock prices. While researchers typically use valuation measures
to proxy for management performance, a firm’s stock price may not reveal the
full extent of its agency problems, as it may also incorporate the expected
correction of these problems via a takeover. Our results thus challenge the
common practice of using Tobin’s Q or stock price performance to measure
management quality. By breaking the correlation between market valuations
and takeover activity into trigger and anticipation effects, our analysis allows
us to determine the extent to which future expected takeovers are priced in.
In that respect, our paper is related to Song and Walkling (2000), who find
that firms’ stock prices increase following the acquisition of their rivals and
attribute this to the increased expectation that they will be taken over them-
selves. Other papers analyze the effect of takeover anticipation on stock returns
rather than valuations. Hackbarth and Morellec (2008) and Cremers, Nair, and
John (2009) show that anticipated takeovers affect the correlation of a stock’s
return with the market return and hence have an effect on the discount rate.
Prabhala (1997) and Li and Prabhala (2007) note that takeover anticipation
will affect the market return to merger announcements.
   Third, considering the full feedback loop—the combination of the trigger
effect and the anticipation effect—our results suggest that the anticipation ef-
fect could become an impediment to takeovers. The anticipation of a takeover
boosts prices, deterring the acquisition of underperforming firms. Moreover, it
may also allow managers to underperform in the first place since they are less
fearful of disciplinary acquisitions.4 Indeed, many practitioners believe that

   4 Brealey, Myers, and Allen (2010) note that “the most important effect of acquisitions may be

felt by the managers of companies that are not taken over. Perhaps the threat of takeover spurs
the whole of corporate America to try harder.”
938                              The Journal of FinanceR

the anticipation effect has significant effects on real-life takeover activity. A
December 22, 2005 Wall Street Journal article claims that this has been a ma-
jor problem in the U.S. banking industry: “takeover potential raises [the] value
of small financial institutions, making them harder to acquire.” This may have
led to severe consequences, as small banks remained stand-alone and were less
able to withstand the recent financial crisis. Many commentators believe that
the same phenomenon recently occurred in the U.K. water industry. For exam-
ple, an October 13, 2006 article in This Is Money notes that “there are concerns
that the race for control of [water] assets has overheated valuations, adding to
speculation that the [merger] bubble is about to burst.”5 Essentially, in these
cases and others, the belief of an upcoming takeover becomes self-defeating.6
This self-defeating nature of takeover expectations sheds new light on other
important real-world phenomena. First, it suggests why merger waves endoge-
nously die out. If a recent spate of mergers leads the market to predict future
acquisitions, this causes valuations to rise (anticipation effect), dissuading fur-
ther acquisition attempts. Second, it provides a rationale for the practice of
CEOs publicly expressing concerns about an upcoming takeover. Such state-
ments act as a takeover defense, as they inflate the price, which in turn deters
the takeover from occurring. We reiterate the caveat that we are only able to
attribute a portion of the endogeneity to the anticipation effect; the anticipation
effect that we are able to pin down is economically modest.
   In addition, our paper has a number of wider implications outside the
takeover market. The feedback loop may apply to other corrective actions, such
as CEO replacement, shareholder activism, and regulatory intervention. Low
valuations trigger intervention, but market anticipation causes prices to rise,
which in turn may deter the correction from occurring. Bradley et al. (2010)
show that the discount at which a closed-end fund is traded affects and reflects
the probability of activism at the same time. In addition, while many existing
papers use raw valuation or profitability to measure management quality or
agency problems (e.g. to correlate it with CEO pay or corporate governance),
this paper’s approach of measuring these variables using a discount to poten-
tial value can be applied to these other settings. Furthermore, trigger effects
are often estimated in non-M&A settings, such as the link between firm valua-
tion and CEO turnover. Our approach of purging valuations of the anticipation
effect is applicable to the estimation of these trigger effects also.
   More broadly, our results contribute to the growing literature that analyzes
the link between financial markets and corporate events (see Bond, Edmans,
and Goldstein (2012) for a recent survey). While the corporate finance litera-
ture typically studies the effect of prices on firm actions and the asset pricing
literature examines the reverse relation, our paper analyzes the full feedback
   5 See, “Water Takeovers Bubbling Up,” by This is Money, October 13, 2006. Available at:

http://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/news/article-1603327/Water-takeovers-bubbling-up.html.
   6 This effect is reminiscent of the free-rider problem in the theoretical model of Grossman and

Hart (1980), although the market price plays no role in coordinating expectations in their setting.
Equilibrium outcomes in settings where the combination of the trigger effect and the anticipation
effect becomes self-defeating have been analyzed by Bond, Goldstein, and Prescott (2010).
                       The Real Effects of Financial Markets                           939

loop—the simultaneous, two-way interaction between prices and corporate ac-
tions that combines the trigger and anticipation effects. We show that prices
both affect and reflect real decisions. One important strand of this literature
concerns the link between financial market efficiency and real efficiency. While
most existing research suggests that the former is beneficial for the latter,7 our
results point to an intriguing disadvantage of forward-looking prices—they
may deter the very actions that they anticipate.
   The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section I specifies the
model that we use for the empirical analysis. In Section II we describe our data
and variable construction. Section III presents the empirical results. In Section
IV we consider some extensions and robustness tests. Section V concludes.


                               I. Model Specification
A. Firm Valuation and Discount
   A number of earlier papers study the effect of raw valuations on takeover
probability. By contrast, our key explanatory variable is the “discount” at which
a firm trades relative to its maximum potential value absent managerial inef-
ficiency and mispricing, which we call the “frontier value.” Theoretically, it is
this variable that will drive a firm’s likelihood of becoming a takeover target,
as it measures the potential gain from an acquisition.
   In some settings the frontier value is well defined. For example, in closed-
end funds, it is the net asset value (NAV). The discount can then be simply
calculated as the difference between the NAV and the market price. Indeed,
Bradley et al. (2010) find that activist shareholders are more likely to target
closed-end funds that are trading at deeper discounts. Analogously, the market
value of regular corporations can deviate from their potential value owing to
agency problems and/or mispricing, and this might make the corporation a
takeover target.
   For a regular corporation, the frontier value cannot be observed and must
be estimated. This is done by observing the valuation of “successful” firms
with similar fundamentals. Specifically, let X be a vector of variables repre-
senting firm fundamentals that determine potential value: V ∗ = f (X). Since
V ∗ represents the potential value after the acquirer has corrected managerial
inefficiencies, the X variables should consist of firm characteristics that bidders
are unlikely to change upon takeover.
   If the set of value-relevant variables X is exhaustive, and if there is no noise
or mispricing in valuation, then the maximum valuation commanded among
the group of peer firms that share the same fundamentals can be perceived
as the “potential” of all other firms. However, a particular firm could have
an abnormally high valuation owing to luck, misvaluation, or idiosyncratic
features (such as unique core competencies) if X is not fully exhaustive of
   7 See, for example, Fishman and Hagerty (1992), Holmstrom and Tirole (1993), Subrahmanyam

and Titman (1999), Dow, Goldstein, and Guembel (2010), Admati and Pfleiderer (2009), Edmans
(2009), and Edmans and Manso (2011).
940                              The Journal of FinanceR

all value-relevant fundamental variables. For example, a rival search engine is
unlikely to command the valuation of Google even if it is efficiently run. Setting
the potential value to the maximum value among peers would thus erroneously
result in assuming that this high valuation was achievable for all firms and
overestimating the discount.
   An improved specification is to set the potential value to a high percentile,
rather than maximum, valuation of peer firms. We define “successful” firms
as those that command valuations at the (1 − α )th percentile or higher among
peer firms, where 0 < α < 12 . A firm valued at below the (1 − α )th percentile
is classified as operating below potential value. When α = 0, the benchmark
is the maximum valuation among peers; when α = 12 , the benchmark becomes
the median (we require α < 12 to reflect the fact that a successful firm should
be above median).
   We now discuss the choices for the X variables and the parameter α, starting
with the former. In our first approach, X includes only a firm’s industry affilia-
tion. Acquirers are unlikely to change the target’s sector and instead typically
aim to restore its value to that commanded by successful firms in the same
sector, so the industry affiliation easily satisfies the requirement for X to be
exogenous to acquirers’ actions. In using the industry benchmark, we follow
other papers in the takeover literature (see, e.g., Rhodes-Kropf, Robinson, and
Viswanathan (2005)) as well as practitioners. For example, “comparable com-
panies analysis” compares a firm’s valuation to its industry peers and is often
used by practitioners to identify undervalued companies that might be suitable
takeover targets. The potential concern is that an industry benchmark ignores
other determinants of potential value. For example, small and growing firms
are likely to command higher valuations than larger, mature peers. Also, this
approach implicitly assumes that a particular industry cannot be systemati-
cally over or undervalued, often contradicted by evidence (Hoberg and Phillips
(2010)).
   We therefore also employ a second approach, using firm characteristics as X
variables.8 We take two steps to reduce the concern that the estimated fron-
tier value can be affected by the acquirer. First, following Habib and Ljungqvist
(2005), who also estimate a frontier value, we choose variables that are unlikely
to be radically transformed by an acquirer. For example, while a firm’s market
share and financial policies (such as dividend payout) both affect its actual val-
uation, only the former affects its frontier valuation: it is difficult to transform
market share immediately, but financial policies can be quickly reversed. The
X variables we use are firm size, firm age, asset intensity, R&D intensity, mar-
ket share, growth opportunities, and business cyclicality. These variables are
further motivated in Section II.B as well as in Habib and Ljungqvist (2005).
   Second, we recognize that firm characteristics are not completely exogenous
and that acquirers may be able to change them within some range. Accordingly,

  8 We do not use industry affiliation in conjunction with firm characteristics as we wish to allow

particular industries to be over- or undervalued.
                     The Real Effects of Financial Markets                      941

we do not use the raw measures of these variables (except for age, which is fully
exogenous) but rather their tercile ranks. This specification allows for bidders
to change the value of these fundamentals within a given tercile, but not to
alter it sufficiently to move it into a different tercile. Since an acquirer is more
likely to change the tercile of a firm that is currently close to the cutoffs, we
exclude such firms in a sensitivity analysis in Section IV.
   Indeed, existing research finds that takeover gains typically stem from cor-
recting underperformance given a set of fundamentals rather than chang-
ing the fundamentals themselves. For the typical mergers and acquisitions
(M&A) deal, one cannot observe whether the target’s fundamentals change
since they are consolidated with the acquirer, but this is possible in a lever-
aged buyout (LBO) since the target continues to be reported independently.
Muscarella and Vetsuypens (1990) find that the sales (one of our X vari-
ables) of LBO targets change at a similar rate to sales of nontargets, and
Smith (1990) documents no significant difference in the rate of change in R&D
(a second X variable). Further, many papers find that the bulk of value creation
from LBOs is due to improvements in efficiency. This literature is surveyed by
Eckbo and Thorburn (2008); we briefly mention the key papers here. Kaplan
(1989), Smith (1990), and Muscarella and Vetsuypens (1990) find improvements
in accounting performance. Smith (1990) shows that these improvements
arise from superior working capital management, and Muscarella and Vet-
suypens (1990) demonstrate that they stem from cutting expenses rather than
increasing revenues. Using plant-level data, Lichtenberg and Siegel (1990)
document significant increases in productivity, and the case study of Baker
and Wruck (1989) finds improved incentives, monitoring, and working capital
management.
   In summary, there is a trade-off between our two approaches. The advantage
of the second approach is that a more extensive list of variables provides a more
accurate assessment of true potential value. The disadvantage is that some of
the added X variables may not be completely outside the acquirer’s control.
This concern does not arise under the first approach, where the only X variable
is industry affiliation. As we describe later, our results turn out to be slightly
stronger under the industry approach.
   The remaining specification issue is the choice of α. Here again there is a
trade-off. A low α may overweight abnormal observations, while a high α may
underestimate the potential value and thus the occurrence of discounts. We
calibrate α from the empirical facts documented by prior literature. According
to Andrade, Mitchell, and Stafford (2001), the median takeover premium was
37% to 39% during the 1980 to 2002 period; Jensen and Ruback (1983) docu-
ment similar magnitudes in an earlier period. Since bidder returns are close
to zero on average (Jensen and Ruback (1983), Betton, Eckbo, and Thorburn
(2008)), the target captures almost the entire value gains from the takeover.
Therefore, on average, the takeover premium represents the potential for value
improvement at the target. We thus calibrate the (1 − α)th percentile (i.e., the
expected posttakeover value) to capture the value of the median target firm
942                                 The Journal of FinanceR

(pretakeover) plus the median takeover premium (38%).9 Specifically, we pool
all firms within a given three-digit SIC industry across all years and subtract
year fixed effects. We then add 38% to the pre-acquisition equity value of each
firm that was a takeover target and rank each target’s cum-premium value
within its industry peers. We find that after including the premium, the me-
dian ranking of targets in our sample is at the 77th percentile of the respective
industry. Rounding to the nearest decile, this corresponds to an α of 20%. In
other words, about 80% (20%) of the firms are traded at a discount (premium)
in a given year. This choice of α is also supported by evidence from closed-end
funds, a setting in which the discount can be precisely measured. Bradley et al.
(2010) find that, on average, about 20% (80%) of closed-end funds trade at a pre-
mium (discount) to NAV. In Section IV, we vary α across the range of [0.10, 0.30]
and find that our results are not sensitive to the choice of α within this region.
   Once X and α are chosen, and given observed valuations V , the potential
value can be estimated using the quantile regression method pioneered by
Koenker and Bassett (1978):

                                          V = Xβ + ε,                                         (1)

where Quantile1−α (ε) = 0, ε is a disturbance term, and Xβ is the potential value.
More specifically, with actual data {Vi,t , Xi,t } and for a given α, we estimate     β
in (1) via the least absolute deviation (LAD) method:
           ⎧                                                                        ⎫
         1 ⎨                                                                      ⎬
    min                (1 − α)|Vi,t − f (Xi,t ; 
                                                β )| +       α|Vi,t − f (Xi,t ; 
                                                                                β )| ,
    β ∈B n ⎩
                                                                                   ⎭ (2)
                     
              Vi,t > f (Xi,t ;β )                          
                                                          Vi,t ≤ f (Xi,t ;β )
                                                           ) ≥ 0,
                                            s.t. f (Xi,t ; β

                ) is the estimated maximum potential value. Note that (2) holds
where f (Xi,t ; β
                                                                              )), and
regardless of the distribution of ε (or its empirical analog Vi,t − f (Xi,t ; β
so we do not require any assumptions over the disturbance term, except for its
value at the (1 − α)th percentile. The added nonnegativity constraint f (Xi,t ; β ) ≥
0 (which reflects limited liability) is a minor variation of the original model of
Koenker and Bassett (1978). The nonnegativity constraint is addressed by the
censored least absolute deviation (CLAD) method of Powell (1984). Obviously,
this estimation is simple under the first approach, where there is a single X
variable, industry affiliation. In this case, the frontier value is simply the 80th
percentile firm in the industry.
  Having estimated     β , the empirical analog to Discount = (V ∗ − V ) /V ∗ is
                                             − Vi,t )/Xi,t β
                                       (Xi,t β             .                                 (3)

   9 Arguably, the takeover premium might include synergy as well as efficiency gains. According

to Betton, Eckbo, and Thorburn (2008), same-industry takeovers (where synergies are most likely)
do not involve higher takeover premia, and hostile takeovers (which are less likely to be synergy-
driven) do not feature lower premia. Therefore, valuation-driven takeovers likely exhibit similar
premia to takeovers in general.
                         The Real Effects of Financial Markets                               943

Our estimation of the potential value is a form of the stochastic frontier method
proposed by Aigner, Lovell, and Schmidt (1977) and analyzed by Kumbhakar
and Lovell (2000). A different form of stochastic frontier analysis has been used
in finance by Hunt-McCool, Koh, and Francis (1996) and Habib and Ljungqvist
(2005). Our specification (1) makes no parametric assumptions regarding ε and
thus accommodates skewness, heteroskedasticity, and within-cluster correla-
tion, all of which are common features in finance panel data.
   We emphasize that the frontier value is a standalone concept, and deliber-
ately does not take into account any synergies with specific acquirers. This is
because our goal is to study the effect of prices on takeover activity, and more
generally the importance of financial markets for real decisions. If synergies are
the primary motive for mergers and/or financial markets are a sideshow, our
Discount measure (which ignores acquirer-specific synergies and captures only
managerial inefficiency and mispricing) should have no explanatory power. By
contrast, we find that standalone Discount does attract takeovers.10


B. Interaction of Takeover and Discount
  Our goal is to estimate the effect of the discount on takeover likelihood.
We will show that accounting for the endogeneity of the discount is crucial
in quantifying the trigger effect from the discount to the takeover likelihood.
To ease the exposition, we hereforth refer to one source of endogeneity in the
discount, namely, the anticipation effect (from the takeover likelihood to the
discount). In Section III.B.2, we discuss how much of the endogeneity can
indeed be accounted for by the anticipation effect.
  Let us start with a benchmark model in which the discount is exogenous to
the takeover likelihood, that is, the discount only affects the takeover likeli-
hood. We use Discount0 to denote the “underlying” discount that would exist in
such a world. In this benchmark model, the system can be written as

                     Discount0 = γ0 X + γ1 Z1 + γ2 Z2 + η,                                    (4)


                     Takeover∗ = μ1 Discount0 + μ2 X + μ3 Z1 + ξ,                             (5)


                                       1,   if Takeover∗ > 0,
                      Takeover =                                                              (6)
                                       0,   otherwise,


                      corr(η, ξ ) = 0,                                                        (7)
   10 Note that, to the extent that other peer firms have already merged and achieved synergies,

our measure does capture these potential synergies. In addition, the takeover premium used to
calibrate α = 0.2 is based on transactions that likely involved synergies. The synergies that our
measure does not capture are those that are not reflected in the current value of comparable firms
and are specific to a combination with a particular acquirer.
944                          The Journal of FinanceR

where Takeover∗ is the latent variable for the propensity of a takeover bid, and
Takeover is the corresponding observed binary outcome. Since corr(η, ξ ) = 0,
the two equations can be separately estimated using a linear regression model
and a binary response regression model, respectively.
  We classify determinants of the discount into two groups. The vector Z1 com-
prises variables that affect both the discount and the probability of takeover.
These include variables that capture managerial agency problems, as they
affect operational inefficiency and are likely also correlated with takeover re-
sistance. The variable Z2 represents market frictions that affect the stock price
but have no independent effect on takeover probability other than through the
price. The distinction between the Z1 and Z2 variables will become important
when we consider the endogeneity of the discount and require instruments.
  Since the discount is calculated using tercile ranks of X (except Age, which
enters with its full value), it is not orthogonal to the raw values of X and so X
(except Age) appears in (4). We also allow the X variables to enter the Takeover
equation directly as certain firm characteristics may make an acquisition easier
to execute. For example, small acquisitions are easier to finance and less likely
to violate antitrust hurdles (Palepu (1986), Mikkelson and Partch (1989)). In
addition, it is easier to raise debt to finance targets with steady cash flows, high
asset tangibility, and in noncyclical businesses. All variables are described in
Section II.B.
  Allowing for the endogeneity of the discount, the equations above become
interdependent. Specifically, if the endogeneity is due to the market rationally
anticipating the probability of a takeover, then the observed discount (Discount)
will shrink below the underlying Discount0 as modeled by (4). In this case, (4)
and (5) should be remodeled as

                    Discount = γ0 X + γ1 Z1 + γ2 Z2 + δξ + η ,                  (8)



                   Takeover∗ = μ1 Discount + μ2 X + μ3 Z1 + ξ,                   (9)

where η in (4) becomes δξ + η in (8), with δξ representing the shrinkage from
the anticipation effect, that is, δ is expected to be negative. As a result, we have

                      ρ = corr(η, ξ ) = corr(δξ + η , ξ ) = δσξ2
                                                                               (10)
                           < 0 if δ < 0,

and hence the simultaneity of the system. Note that since ρ < 0, the endo-
geneity acts in the opposite direction from the true μ1 and using equation (9)
alone will underestimate μ1 . In other words, empiricists might estimate a low
μ1 simply because a low discount is observed when the market anticipates a
takeover. The only way to uncover the true μ1 is by using an instrumental
variable Z2 that has a direct effect on Discount but only affects Takeover∗ via
its effect on Discount.
   The system cannot be estimated using conventional two-stage least squares
                     The Real Effects of Financial Markets                   945

because the observed variable Takeover is a binary variable. Our estimation
follows Rivers and Vuong (1988) and adopts the maximum likelihood method.
We estimate (9) as the main equation, using the reduced form of (8) as an
input to the main equation, and instrumenting the endogenous variable
Discount by the Z2 variable. Later, we back out the relation from Takeover
shocks to Discount in (8) from the estimation (see Section III.B).
   The intuition of the estimation is as follows. Suppose we obtain the residual
             from the linear regression as specified in (8):
discount, Discount,

                = Discount − γ
              Discount        0 X − γ       2 Z2 = δξ + η .
                                     1 Z1 − γ                              (11)

Having controlled for the observable determinants of the discount, the residual
            consists of two components: the anticipation effect (δξ ) and
discount Discount
an unmodeled residual disturbance (η ). The power of the test rests on the
explanatory power of X, Z1 , and Z2 so that, within Discount, the unmodeled
residual η (which is not correlated with any other variables in the model)
does not dominate the anticipation effect δξ . The residual in (9), ξ , can be
                                    as follows:
expressed as a linear function of Discount

                                      + ξ .
                               ξ = λDiscount                                (12)

Substituting (12) into (9) yields

                                                        + ξ .
           Takeover∗ = μ1 Discount + μ2 X + μ3 Z1 + λ Discount              (13)
                                                               
                                                             =ξ


                                          as a control function (or “auxil-
  By adding the projected residual, Discount,
iary” regressor) in equation (13), it “absorbs” the correlation between the error
term and the Discount regressor. Therefore, the resulting residual ξ  is now
a well-behaved disturbance that is uncorrelated with all other regressors in
the Takeover equation, including Discount. As a result, (13) resembles a regu-
                                         which is not a natural covariate,
lar probit specification except that Discount,
needs to be integrated out in order to obtain the structural coefficients on the
observable variables. Equation (B3) in Appendix B presents the full likelihood
function.


                     II. Data and Variable Description
A. Data
  We obtain data on M&A from Securities Data Company (SDC) for 1980 to
2007. We include all bids, regardless of whether they are eventually completed,
since the target’s valuation is likely to have greatest effect on an acquirer’s
decision to bid; we repeat the analysis with completed bids only at the end
of Section IV.C. Since we are assuming a sufficient change of control that
946                                The Journal of FinanceR

the acquirer is able to improve the target’s efficiency, we use SDC’s “Form of
the Deal” variable to exclude bids classified as acquisitions of partial stakes,
minority squeeze-outs, buybacks, recapitalizations, and exchange offers. We
also delete bids for which the acquirer had a stake exceeding 50% before the
acquisition, or a final holding of under 50%. This leaves us with 13,196 deals.
As we require the target’s valuation, we drop all bids for which the target does
not have stock return data on CRSP and basic accounting data on Compustat.
We also exclude all financial (SIC code 6000-6999) and utilities (SIC code 4000-
4949) firms from the sample, because takeovers are highly regulated in these
industries. These restrictions bring the final sample down to 6,555 deals. From
this list we construct the variable Takeover, a dummy variable that equals one
if the firm receives a takeover bid in a particular calendar year. The universe of
potential targets is all nonfinancial and nonutility firms that have the necessary
CRSP and Compustat data.
   Table I, Panel A, provides a full definition of all the independent variables
used in our analysis; summary statistics are in Panel B. All of our accounting
variables come from Compustat; we obtain additional variables from CRSP,
Thomson Reuters, and SDC as detailed later. All variables from Compustat
are calculated for the fiscal year ending the year before the Takeover dummy;
the others are calculated for the prior calendar year. All potentially unbounded
numbers are winsorized at the 1% and 99% levels.


B. Variable Description
   The construction of the Discount variable relies on the choice of a valuation
metric to determine V and a set of fundamental variables that can be used
to predict the frontier value. Our primary valuation measure is Q, the ratio of
enterprise value (debt plus market equity) to book value (debt plus book equity),
as it is the most widely used valuation metric in the finance literature. We also
use a secondary measure, EV /Ebitda, the ratio of enterprise value to earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization, because most takeovers
are driven by the acquirer’s desire to access the target’s cash flows rather than
liquidate target assets. In addition, this variable is frequently used by M&A
practitioners. Negative values for these observations are coded as missing.
   We describe the rationale behind the choice of X variables in Section I.A.
In our first specification, the only X variable is a firm’s industry affiliation as
classified by the three-digit SIC code. Therefore, the frontier value is the 80th
percentile valuation of a given industry. To construct this measure, we first
pool observations from all years for a given industry, filter out year fixed effects
from the valuation measures, retrieve the 80th percentile value, and then add
back the year fixed effects.11 Finally, we calculate Discount as in (3), which is

   11 We pool observations from all years for a given industry (while adjusting for year fixed effects)

to have a sufficiently large sample to form accurate percentile estimates. On average, there are 26
observations in an industry-year, and 693 observations in an industry across all years from 1980
to 2006.
                         The Real Effects of Financial Markets                                 947

                                               Table I
                                 Summary of Variables
This table summarizes the main variables used (Panel A) and presents summary statistics
(Panel B). All data are obtained from Compustat unless otherwise stated; “data” numbers refer to
the line items from Compustat.

                                     Panel A: Data Definitions

Discount Variables (Discount)
  Discount (Industry:            Value discount relative to the industry frontier, using EV/Ebitda
    EV/Ebitda)                     as the valuation metric.
  Discount (Industry: Q)         Value discount relative to the industry frontier, using Q as the
                                   valuation metric.
  Discount (Firm:                Value discount relative to the firm-specific frontier, using
    EV/Ebitda)                     EV/Ebitda as the valuation metric.
  Discount (Firm: Q)             Value discount relative to the firm-specific frontier, using Q as
                                   the valuation metric.
Fundamental Variables (X)
  Age                            Firm age, calculated as years from first appearance in CRSP.
  ATO                            Asset turnover. Sales (data12)/Assets (data6).
  BetaAsset                      Beta on the market factor in a Fama–French three-factor model
                                   using daily data from CRSP, and then unlevered.
  Growth                         Average sales growth during past (up to) 3 years.
  MktShr                         Sales / Total sales in three-digit SIC industry.
  R&D                            R&D expense (data46)/Sales (data12); zero if missing.
  SalesRank                      Rank of sales (data12) among all Compustat firms in a given
                                   year, ranging from zero to one.
Variables Affecting Discount and Takeover Probability (Z1 )
  Amihud                        Illiquidity measure per Amihud (2002); yearly average of the
                                   square root of (Price×Vol)/|Return|.
                                Daily observations with a zero return are removed; coded as
                                   missing if <30 observations in a year, from CRSP.
  HHIFirm                       Herfindahl index of a firm’s sales in different business segments.
  HHISIC3                       Herfindahl index of sales by all firms in three-digit SIC industry.
  Inst                          % of shares outstanding held by institutions, from Thomson
                                   Financial.
  Leverage                      (Debt (data9 + data34) − Cash (data1))/Assets (data 6).
  Payout                        (Dividends (data21) + Repurchases (data115))/Net Income
                                   (data18); zero if numerator is zero or missing, and
                                   one if numerator > 0 and denominator = 0.
Variables Affecting Discount (Z2 )
  MFFlow                         Mutual fund price pressure, from Thomson Reuters mutual fund
                                   holdings database. See the Appendix for further details.

                                    Panel B: Summary Statistics

                                                                           Percentiles

Name                        # Obs      Mean      Std. Dev.   5th    25th     50th   75th      95th

Age                        118,942     11.48       13.03      1       3      7       15        37
ATO                        118,942      1.21        0.82     0.17   0.63    1.08    1.59      2.79
Amihud                     101,026      0.77        1.11     0.02   0.11    0.35    0.93      3.05

                                                                                         (continued)
948                              The Journal of FinanceR

                                       Table I—Continued

                                   Panel B: Summary Statistics

                                                                         Percentiles
Name                       # Obs     Mean Std. Dev.     5th      25th       50th   75th    95th

BetaAssets                117,211     0.69     0.41     0.09      0.38      0.65   0.95     1.45
Discount (Industry:        92,116     0.18     0.48    −1.05      0.10      0.38   0.57     0.76
  EV/Ebitda)
Discount (Industry: Q)    116,543     0.24     0.47    −0.90      0.09      0.37   0.57     0.77
Discount (Firm:            92,141     0.27     0.48    −1.03      0.11      0.41   0.61     0.79
  EV/Ebitda)
Discount (Firm: Q)        116,567    0.28      0.46    −0.92   0.11  0.41  0.60             0.77
EV/Ebitda                  92,141   15.95     28.05     3.76   6.12  8.70 13.77            47.05
Growth (%)                118,942   30.4%     80.0%   −17.8%   1.3% 11.4% 28.3%           127.5%
HHIFirm                   118,942    0.85      0.24     0.35   0.66  1.00  1.00             1.00
HHISIC3                   118,942    0.19      0.16     0.06   0.09  0.14  0.25             0.50
Inst (%)                  118,942   27.9%     26.7%     0.0%   4.1% 19.8% 46.8%            80.4%
Leverage (%)              118,942    8.8%     34.6%   −56.5% −11.7% 12.5% 31.8%            60.5%
MFFlow                    118,942   −0.30      0.92    −1.45  −0.20  0.00  0.00             0.00
MktShr (%)                118,942    5.1%     12.8%     0.0%   0.1% 0.5% 3.3%              27.4%
Payout (%)                118,942   38.1%     77.4%     0.0%   0.0% 0.0% 50.3%            137.0%
Q                         116,567    2.33      2.55     0.67   1.04  1.51  2.51             6.75
R&D (%)                   118,942   19.0%    114.4%     0.0%   0.0% 0.0% 4.7%              38.2%



the shortfall of actual from potential valuation, scaled by the latter.
   In the second specification, we use firm-specific characteristics that are un-
likely to be substantially changed by the acquirer. We first include Age, the
firm’s age (defined as the number of years since a firm’s first appearance in
CRSP), as this is a characteristic that an acquirer cannot change. Given po-
tential nonlinearities (the effect of Age on growth opportunities, and thus firm
value, is likely to be greatest for young firms), we also include the square of Age.
We use SalesRank (rank of sales) as a measure of firm size, which likely im-
pacts frontier valuation as it proxies for growth opportunities and diminishing
returns to scale.12 Size is primarily determined by factors outside the acquirer’s
control such as firm history. The variables Growth (3-year sales growth) and
MktShr (market share in the three-digit SIC industry) are likely to be posi-
tively correlated with valuation and are also a function of firm history. Further,
R&D (the ratio of R&D to sales) may affect valuation as it is correlated with
growth opportunities, and BetaAsset (the firm’s unlevered market beta) cap-
tures business cyclicality, which affects the cost of capital; both characteristics
are affected by a firm’s industry, which is unlikely to be changed by the ac-
quirer. We also employ ATO (asset turnover, the ratio of sales to total assets),
as this is primarily determined by asset intensity or the importance of tangible
assets in the firm’s industry. A high proportion of intangible assets is likely to

  12 We use Sales rather than market capitalization as our measure of size, since the latter is

directly correlated with our dependent variables.
                         The Real Effects of Financial Markets                                 949




Figure 1. Time series of aggregate discounts and takeover activities. This figure plots the
time series (1980 to 2006) of the aggregate Discount (as defined in Table 1, Panel A, the left axis)
and the empirical frequency of takeovers (the right axis).


be associated with a low book value and thus a high Q.
   As stated previously, since an acquirer can alter these X variables to some
extent, we only use their tercile ranks among all Compustat firms in a given
year (except for Age, where we use the continuous variable as it is strictly
exogenous). Our methodology thus allows companies to change the fundamen-
tals within tercile ranges, but not significantly enough to move the firm into
a different tercile. For example, an acquirer of a retail company is unlikely to
increase R&D in the target company to the level of pharmaceutical companies,
and vice versa. We estimate the frontier values based on firm-specific charac-
teristics using the censored quantile regression technique as specified in (1)
and (2), and construct Discount accordingly.
   The combination of two valuation metrics and two frontier value specifica-
tions yields four Discount measures. Their summary statistics are reported
in Table I, Panel B. The 20th percentile values are close to zero by construc-
tion, and the mean is 18% to 28%.13 In addition to being necessary to estimate
the trigger effect, the “underlying” discount is of independent interest as it
measures the potential increase in firm value from a takeover.
   Figure 1 plots three graphs. The first two are the time series of the aggregate
discount values using the industry frontier value specification, where each

   13 The mean value is slightly higher than the 16% found by Habib and Ljungqvist (2005) using

a different (parametric) methodology and a larger set of X variables. As we discuss in the text, we
are intentionally stringent on the criteria for X variables to ensure that the determinants of the
frontier are largely beyond the control of managers and potential acquirers.
950                               The Journal of FinanceR

annual observation is obtained as the equal-weighted average across all firms
during that year. The second is the empirical frequency of takeovers during
the sample period, which ranges from about 3% to above 8% annually. The
aggregate discount and takeover levels tend to move in the same direction,
except for 2002 to 2003, when the market crash depressed valuations and
reduced firms’ ability to finance acquisitions.
   As specified in (4), three sets of variables can explain the cross-sectional
variation in Discount. The first group comprises the firm fundamental vari-
ables X. The second group consists of our Z1 variables, which measure firm
characteristics or policies that affect both the valuation discount and also the
takeover likelihood, either by proxying for managerial entrenchment (thus de-
terring takeovers), or by affecting the ease of takeover execution. The variables
Leverage (net debt/book assets) and Payout (dividends plus repurchases divided
by net income) both reduce the free cash available to managers and therefore
are likely to lessen discounts. In addition, both variables are correlated with
business maturity and thus cash flow stability, which facilitates financing of
the takeover. As an external governance measure, we include H H ISIC3, the
Herfindahl index of all firms’ sales within the firm’s primary three-digit SIC,
to capture the degree of product market competition and antitrust concerns,
which may impede acquisition.14 We also construct the Herfindahl index of the
firm’s sales by business segment, H H I Firm, as a measure of diversification.
Diversification may proxy for an empire-building manager and thus increase
the discount; it may also directly deter takeovers since it complicates target
integration. Institutional shareholder monitoring is an internal governance
mechanism that is likely associated with a lower discount. Institutional own-
ership concentration also facilitates coordination among shareholders, thus re-
ducing the Grossman and Hart (1980) free-rider problem in takeovers. Indeed,
Mikkelson and Partch (1989) and Shivdasani (1993) find that block ownership
increases the probability of a takeover attempt. We construct Inst to be the
total percentage ownership by institutions from Thomson Reuters.15 We also
add Amihud, the Amihud (2002) illiquidity measure. Although not a measure
   14 Industry concentration could also be a fundamental variable, as industry competitiveness can

affect firm profitability. We follow Habib and Ljungqvist (2005) and include it in the category of
agency variables. Giroud and Mueller (2010) show that product market competition can discipline
management and render corporate governance unimportant.
   15 We do not use the Gompers, Ishii, and Metrick (2003) shareholder rights measure or the

Bebchuk, Cohen, and Ferrell (2009) entrenchment index as additional corporate governance vari-
ables as they substantially reduce our sample size (by about two-thirds) and skew the sample
toward large firms. Since large firms are less likely to be taken over, the sample becomes unrep-
resentative of the universe of takeover targets. In the Internet Appendix we show that, in the
subsamples in which they are available, the entrenchment index is uncorrelated with takeover
probability in equilibrium. (An Internet Appendix for this article is available online in the “Sup-
plements and Datasets” section at http://www.afajof.org/supplements.asp.) The shareholder rights
index is uncorrelated with takeover probability in equilibrium using the EV /Ebitda valuation
measure. While it is positively correlated with takeover probability using the Q measure, Discount
retains its significance. We further show that both indexes are positively correlated with Discount,
suggesting that worse governed firms command lower valuations, consistent with Gompers, Ishii,
and Metrick (2003) and Bebchuk, Cohen, and Ferrell (2009). Bates, Becher, and Lemmon (2008)
                        The Real Effects of Financial Markets                             951

of agency costs, we classify it as a Z1 variable as it impacts both Discount and
Takeover. Illiquidity directly affects takeover likelihood as it deters toehold
accumulation, which in turn affects takeover success rates (Betton and Eckbo
(2000)). In addition, it causes firms to trade at a discount (Amihud (2002)).
   Finally, the Z2 variable affects Discount but has no effect on takeover prob-
ability other than through its impact on the discount. We therefore seek a
variable that affects the price due to market frictions and is unrelated to ei-
ther firm fundamentals or managerial resistance. Our chosen instrument is
MFFlow, the price pressure created by mutual fund trading that is not induced
by information but rather by investor flows. The Appendix describes technical
details on the construction of this variable. We assume that, following investor
outflows, a mutual fund will be pressured to sell shares in proportion to its cur-
rent holdings. We consider only mutual funds that have experienced outflows
of at least 5% of total assets, because only extreme outflows are likely to have
an impact on pricing, while moderate flow shocks could be absorbed by internal
cash or external liquidity providers. Hence, for each stock, this measure is the
hypothetical (signed) net selling by all mutual funds that have experienced
extreme shocks. Because the impact of a given outflow on prices depends on
the stock’s liquidity, we scale the dollar outflow by the stock’s dollar trading
volume. Since order imbalances affect stock prices (see, e.g., Sias, Starks, and
Titman (2006) and Coval and Stafford (2007)), MF Flow is significantly and
negatively correlated with Discount.
   An important feature of our MFFlow measure is that it is constructed not
using mutual funds’ actual purchases and sales (as in Sias, Starks, and Titman
(2006) and Coval and Stafford (2007)), but instead using hypothetical orders
projected from their previously disclosed portfolio. Therefore, MFFlow does not
reflect mutual funds’ discretionary trades possibly based on changes in their
views of a stock’s takeover vulnerability. Rather, this measure captures the
expansion or contraction of a fund’s existing positions that is mechanically
induced by investor flows to and from the fund. Such flows are in turn unlikely
to be driven by investors’ views on the takeover likelihood of an individual
firm held by the fund, since these views would be expressed through direct
trading of the stock. Hence, MFFlow satisfies the exclusion restriction—the
econometric requirement of being correlated with the discount but not directly
with the probability of a takeover.
   Still, a potential concern is that there may be a direct correlation between
fund flows and the takeover probability of the firms held by the fund. We can
think of three possible reasons for such a correlation. First, some funds may
be overweighting future takeover targets (e.g., due to the manager’s ability
to predict takeovers), and investors’ redemption decisions may be affected by
this stock selection. Any such effect, however, should attenuate our findings.
Funds skilled in identifying takeover targets will exhibit superior performance
and thus be more likely to experience inflows than outflows; in turn, such

also find that the Gompers, Ishii, and Metrick (2003) antitakeover measures do not reduce the
likelihood of takeover (and in some cases are positively correlated with takeover probability).
952                             The Journal of FinanceR




Figure 2. Effect of mutual fund outflows on stock returns. This figure plots the monthly
cumulative average abnormal returns (CAAR) of stocks around the event months, where an event
is defined as a firm-month observation in which MFFlow falls below the 10th percentile value of
the full sample. CAAR is computed over the benchmark of the CRSP equal-weighted index from
12 months before the event to 24 months after. (There are three event months because holdings
are only recorded at the quarterly level, while returns are recorded at a monthly frequency.)


inflows should inflate the price of the firms in their portfolio and reduce their
takeover likelihood. Second, outflows could be caused by poor fund performance,
and it may be that such underperformance is correlated with the takeover
vulnerability of the stocks held by the fund. One potential factor is poor funda-
mentals: a manager with low stock-picking ability may choose weak companies
that are likely to be taken over, but also reduce the fund’s performance and
thus cause outflows. We address this concern by controlling for observable firm
fundamentals in the takeover likelihood equation, and also by showing that
stocks subject to large MFFlow do not exhibit poor performance beforehand,
contradicting the concern that poor stock performance may have led to the out-
flows. Third, mutual funds specializing in a particular industry may experience
flows that are correlated with shocks to both the valuation and the takeover
activities in the industry. For example, the bursting of the technology bubble
sparked sector consolidation as well as outflows from technology mutual funds.
We thus exclude sector mutual funds in constructing the MFFlow measure.16
In addition, we use year fixed effects to control for any aggregate shocks to both
takeover activity and fund flows in a particular year.
   Figure 2 illustrates the magnitude and persistence of the effect of mechan-
ically driven mutual fund redemptions on stock prices. Following Coval and
Stafford (2007), we define an “event” as a firm-month in which MFFlow falls
below the 10th percentile value of the full sample. We then trace out the cu-

   16 These funds represent 8.5% of all funds in our sample, and 8.7% of the aggregate flows

(in unsigned absolute magnitude) to and from equity mutual funds. Results are qualitatively
unchanged when including these funds.
                          The Real Effects of Financial Markets                                 953

mulative average abnormal returns (CAAR) over the CRSP equal-weighted
index from 12 months before the event to 24 months after. (There are 3 event
months because holdings are only recorded at the quarterly level, while returns
are recorded at a monthly frequency). Figure 2 shows that there is no signifi-
cant decline in stock price prior to the event. Upon the event, the price pres-
sure effects are both significant in magnitude and long-lasting, persisting for
over a year. Equally important, they are temporary rather than fundamental,
with the price recovering by the end of the 24th month. The duration effect is
similar to that found by Coval and Stafford (2007).17


                                  III. Empirical Results
A. Determinants of Discount and Takeover without Feedback
   As a first step and for comparison with later results, we estimate (4) and (5)
without incorporating the anticipation effect. In this setting, the two equations
are estimated separately. Table II reports the determinants of Discount and
Takeover, for all four measures of Discount.
   We first describe the results in Panel B, which tabulates the determinants
of Discount. Both high leverage and high payout should mitigate the agency
problems of free cash flow and reduce the discount. Our empirical results are
consistent with this hypothesis for Leverage, although the results for Payout
are more mixed. Firms with more concentrated businesses (high H H I Firm)
are associated with a lower discount, consistent with the large literature on
the diversification discount. Industry concentration (proxied by H H ISIC3)
has a negative effect on Discount, indicating that the benefits from market
power outweigh the lack of product market discipline. Some variables, such as
Inst, have different effects on Discount depending on whether the frontier is
industry- or firm-specific. This dichotomy implies that stocks with high insti-
tutional ownership tend to have high valuations relative to their fundamental
variables, but low valuations relative to other firms in the same industry.
Consistent with Amihud (2002), illiquidity increases the discount. Finally, our
instrument, MFFlow, is significantly associated with lower discounts across all
four specifications.
   We now turn to the Takeover equation in Panel A, which illustrates the re-
sponsiveness of the probability of acquisition to Discount. In terms of marginal
probabilities, a one percentage point increase in Discount is associated with
a one to three basis point (i.e., a 0.01 to 0.03 percentage point) increase in
takeover probability, and an interquartile change in Discount is associated
with a 0.4 to 1.6 percentage point increase, out of an unconditional probability
of 6.2%. While a number of prior papers find no relationship between takeovers
and raw valuation, this coefficient is highly statistically significant. The result

   17 Since mutual fund outflows are correlated, approximately 30% of the “events” are followed by

a consecutive “event” in the next quarter. Figure 2 seeks to illustrate the total impact of a large
outflow event. Restricting the figure to only the first “event” in a sequence leads to a very similar
pattern: stock prices remain depressed for over a year, with full correction after 2 years.
                                                                        Table II
                                 Determinants of Discount and Takeover without Feedback
This table reports results from estimating equations (4) and (5) separately. All variables are defined in Table I. The dependent variable in Panel A is   954
Takeover, and that in Panel B is Discount. The firm-specific frontier is formed by a quantile (at the 80th percentile) regression of valuation measures
on SalesRank, R&D, ATO, MktShr, Growth, BetaAsset (all expressed in tercile ranks), Age, and Age2 . Year fixed effects are used in all specifications
but are unreported. All standard errors are adjusted for heteroskedasticity and within-cluster correlation. In Panel A, they are clustered at the firm
level; in Panel B, they are double-clustered at the year and firm levels, and the corresponding t-statistics are reported in the brackets below the
coefficients. The column dPr/dX gives the marginal effect on takeover probability of a one unit (or 100 percentage point) change in each regressor.
The bottom row of the table reports the number of observations, the pseudo R2 , and the all-sample frequency of the dependent variable being one. ∗ ,
∗∗ , and ∗∗∗ indicate statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.


                                                         Panel A: Determinants of Takeover

                                                                        Dependent Variable = Takeover
                                             Discount = Discount(Q)                                   Discount = Discount(EV/Ebitda)
                         Industry-Specific Frontier         Firm-Specific Frontier       Industry-Specific Frontier         Firm-Specific Frontier
                          Coef      t-Stat      dPr/dX     Coef       t-Stat   dPr/dX     Coef      t-Stat   dPr/dX      Coef      t-Stat     dPr/dX

Discount                  0.282∗∗∗ 15.34         3.28%    0.128∗∗∗     7.99     1.51%    0.116∗∗∗    6.66     1.37%     0.070∗∗∗    4.30      0.84%
(effect of interquartile                         1.58%                          0.74%                         0.65%                           0.41%
   change)
SalesRank                 0.065     1.42        0.76%     0.114∗∗   2.51        1.35%   −0.065    −1.21      −0.76%   −0.022    −0.42        −0.26%
R&D                      −0.020∗∗∗ −2.71       −0.23%    −0.018∗∗ −2.51        −0.21%    0.145     1.15       1.71%    0.158     1.26         1.86%
ATO                       0.023∗∗   2.44        0.27%     0.014     1.47        0.16%   −0.005    −0.42      −0.05%    0.003     0.26         0.03%
                                                                                                                                                          The Journal of FinanceR

MktShr                   −0.233∗∗∗ −3.19       −2.71%    −0.273∗∗∗ −3.70       −3.22%   −0.275∗∗∗ −3.59      −3.24%   −0.279∗∗∗ −3.63        −3.29%
Growth                    0.004     0.47       −0.05%    −0.007    −0.80       −0.08%   −0.004    −0.29      −0.05%   −0.007    −0.51        −0.08%
BetaAsset                −0.054∗∗∗ −2.78       −0.63%    −0.123∗∗∗ −6.40       −1.45%   −0.112∗∗∗ −4.98      −1.31%   −0.121∗∗∗ −5.38        −1.43%
Leverage                  0.030     1.23        0.35%     0.012     0.51        0.14%    0.112∗∗∗ 3.65        1.32%    0.105∗∗∗ 3.44          1.24%
Payout                   −0.000    −0.01       −0.00%     0.004     0.47        0.05%    0.006     0.67       0.07%    0.005     0.55         0.06%
HHIFirm                   0.230∗∗∗ 7.19         2.67%     0.233∗∗∗ 7.28         2.75%    0.175∗∗∗ 5.13        2.06%    0.180∗∗∗ 5.26          2.12%
Inst                      0.100∗∗∗ 2.53         1.16%     0.090∗∗   2.28        1.06%    0.069     1.61       0.82%    0.077∗    1.79         0.91%
HHISIC3                  −0.082    −1.53       −0.95%    −0.091∗   −1.71       −1.07%   −0.063    −1.03      −0.74%   −0.072    −1.19        −0.85%
Amihud                   −0.034∗∗∗ −4.05       −0.39%    −0.023∗∗∗ −2.84       −0.27%   −0.027∗∗∗ −2.62      −0.32%   −0.026∗∗ −2.54         −0.31%

# obs, pseudo R2 and   100,160       0.019       6.18%    100,166      0.015    6.18%    79,100      0.018    6.24%     79,103      0.017     6.24%
  all-sample frequency

                                                                                                                                            (continued)
                                  Table II—Continued

                            Panel B: Determinants of Discount

Discount                    Discount(Q)                                      Discount(EV/Ebitda)

Frontier      Industry                        Firm                Industry                         Firm

SalesRank       0.2818∗∗∗                     0.1185∗∗∗             0.3419∗∗∗                   −0.0840∗∗∗
              [13.34]                        [5.27]               [15.48]                      [−3.77]
R&D           −0.0097∗∗∗                    −0.0348∗∗∗            −0.7116∗∗∗                    −1.3508∗∗∗
             [−3.81]                      [−12.73]              [−11.82]                      [−19.57]
ATO           −0.0662∗∗∗                    −0.0627∗∗∗              0.0441∗∗∗                   −0.0337∗∗∗
            [−15.84]                      [−14.62]                 [9.96]                      [−7.64]
MktShr        −0.2317∗∗∗                    −0.1519∗∗∗            −0.0494∗                      −0.0085
             [−7.42]                       [−4.64]               [−1.82]                       [−0.31]
Growth        −0.0531∗∗∗                    −0.0258∗∗∗            −0.0696∗∗∗                    −0.0677∗∗∗
            [−17.48]                       [−8.67]              [−14.02]                      [−13.29]
BetaAsset     −0.2253∗∗∗                      0.0680∗∗∗           −0.0577∗∗∗                      0.0364∗∗∗
            [−38.61]                        [11.24]              [−8.26]                         [5.29]
Leverage      −0.0583∗∗∗                      0.0141              −0.0689∗∗∗                    −0.0220∗
             [−5.63]                         [1.22]              [−5.39]                       [−1.69]
Payout          0.0206∗∗∗                     0.0107∗∗∗           −0.0236∗∗∗                    −0.0195∗∗∗
               [9.71]                        [4.51]              [−9.40]                       [−7.68]
HHIFirm       −0.0591∗∗∗                    −0.1401∗∗∗            −0.0093                       −0.0764∗∗∗
             [−4.74]                      [−11.64]               [−0.74]                       [−6.32]
Inst          −0.1028∗∗∗                    −0.1379∗∗∗              0.0235                      −0.0553∗∗∗
             [−6.41]                       [−8.07]                 [1.47]                      [−3.36]
HHISIC3       −0.0759∗∗∗                    −0.0372∗              −0.1105∗∗∗                    −0.0579∗∗∗
                                                                                                              The Real Effects of Financial Markets



             [−3.40]                       [−1.74]               [−4.84]                       [−2.72]
Amihud          0.0838∗∗∗                     0.0869∗∗∗             0.0253∗∗∗                     0.0261∗∗∗
              [32.84]                       [32.27]                [6.88]                        [7.40]
MFFlow        −0.0139∗∗∗                    −0.0193∗∗∗            −0.0103∗∗∗                    −0.0161∗∗∗
             [−8.43]                      [−10.13]               [−4.63]                       [−7.13]
Constant        0.4649∗∗∗                     0.3268∗∗∗             0.1037∗∗∗                     0.4618∗∗∗
              [25.72]                       [18.82]                [4.96]                       [23.44]

R2             0.126                          0.098                0.064                           0.081
# obs         100,160                        100,166               79,100                          79,103
                                                                                                              955
956                               The Journal of FinanceR

is consistent with the hypothesis that the discount to potential value, rather
than raw valuation, motivates acquisitions.18 Nevertheless, the economic mag-
nitude is modest, especially when using EV /Ebitda. One important source of
the modest effect is the endogeneity of the discount, which is shrunk by the
prospects of a takeover. Such an anticipation effect attenuates the relation be-
tween takeover and valuation. The next section shows that, when feedback is
taken into account, the economic significance rises substantially.


B. Determinants of Takeover and Discount with Feedback
                                   B.1. The Trigger Effect
   We now analyze the simultaneous system of (8) and (9). We first investi-
gate the effect of the underlying discount, Discount0 , on takeover probability
that would prevail if the former were not affected by the latter, that is, we
estimate the trigger effect, controlling for the anticipation effect. The trigger
effect therefore measures the “true” importance of the discount for takeover
attractiveness. The results are reported in Table III.
   Compared to the estimates in Table II, the coefficients on Discount are or-
ders of magnitude higher in all four specifications. Table III shows that a one
percentage point increase in Discount would lead to a statistically significant
12 to 16 basis point increase in Takeover probability if Discount did not shrink
in anticipation of a takeover. An interquartile change in Discount is associated
with a 5.7 to 7.6 percentage point increase in Takeover probability, economically
significant relative to an unconditional probability of 6.2%. The sensitivity is
higher using the Discount measure derived from industry-specific value fron-
tiers, indicating that acquirers are more attracted to firms with low valuations
compared to their industry peers.
   The table also presents the results of two Wald tests. The first is a Stock
and Yogo (2005) weak instrument test, which rejects the hypothesis that the
instruments are weak. The second evaluates the exogeneity of the system, that
is, whether Discount is exogenous to shocks in Takeover. The null is rejected
at less than the 1% level in all four specifications. The second test result, com-
bined with the difference in the Discount coefficient between Tables II and III,
highlights the need to control for endogeneity by using an instrument when
estimating the trigger effect. Doing so shows that prices are a far more impor-
tant driver of takeover activities than implied by the equilibrium correlation
between the two variables.


                               B.2. The Anticipation Effect


   18 Replacing Discount with raw valuation leads to an interquartile response of 0.04 (using

EV /Ebitda) and 0.65 (using Q) percentage points in takeover frequency. Both values, though
significant in our large sample, are considerably lower than those using Discount. This economically
insignificant coefficient is consistent with prior empirical findings.
                                                                       Table III
                                          Effects of Discount on Takeover with Feedback
This table reports results from estimating equation (9) in the (8)–(9) joint system. All variables are defined in Table I. The dependent variable is
Takeover. All standard errors are adjusted for heteroskedasticity and correlation clustered at the firm level. The column dPr/dX gives the marginal
effect on takeover probability of a one unit (or 100 percentage point) change in each regressor. Year fixed effects are used in all specifications but are
unreported. The bottom of the table reports the number of observations, the pseudo R2 , and the all-sample frequency of the dependent variable being
one. Also reported are the test for weak instruments (which rejects the null that the instrumental variable is weak at any significance level higher
than the indicated p-value) and the Wald test for the exogeneity of the system (which rejects the null that the joint system could be reduced to two
independent equations at any significance level higher than the indicated p-value). ∗ , ∗∗ , and ∗∗∗ indicate statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and
1% levels.

                                                          Dependent Variable = Takeover

                                             Discount = Discount(Q)                                    Discount = Discount(EV/Ebitda)
                         Industry-Specific Frontier         Firm-Specific Frontier        Industry-Specific Frontier         Firm-Specific Frontier
                           Coef     t-Stat     dPr/dX      Coef       t-Stat   dPr/dX       Coef      t-Stat   dPr/dX       Coef      t-Stat   dPr/dX

Discount                  1.371∗∗∗  4.24       15.66%     0.989∗∗∗     3.67    11.58%      1.512∗∗∗    4.51    15.87%      1.101∗∗∗    3.64      12.64%
(effect of interquartile                        7.55%                           5.65%                           7.48%                             6.25%
   change)
SalesRank                −0.259∗∗ −2.31        −2.96%    0.002      0.02        0.02%    −0.536∗∗∗ −4.34       −5.62%     0.069     1.17         0.79%
R&D                      −0.006    −0.73       −0.07%    0.014      1.13        0.17%     1.138∗∗∗  4.28       11.95%     1.567∗∗∗  3.61        17.90%
ATO                       0.094∗∗∗  4.09        1.07%    0.0667∗∗∗  3.51        0.78%    −0.067∗∗∗ −3.72       −0.70%     0.0372∗∗  2.51         0.43%
MktShr                    0.058     0.47        0.66%   −0.115     −1.23       −1.35%    −0.135    −1.52       −1.42%    −0.231∗∗∗ −2.96        −2.64%
                                                                                                                                                             The Real Effects of Financial Markets



Growth                    0.064∗∗∗  3.19        0.73%    0.017      1.49        0.20%     0.097∗∗∗  3.00        0.53%     0.066∗∗   2.58         0.22%
BetaAsset                 0.208∗∗   2.47        2.37%   −0.170∗∗∗ −7.65        −1.99%     0.000     0.00        0.00%    −0.141∗∗∗ −6.66        −1.61%
Leverage                  0.094∗∗∗  3.10        1.07%    0.001      0.04        0.01%     0.187∗∗∗  6.16        1.96%     0.119∗∗∗  4.03         1.36%
Payout                    0.023∗∗ −2.16        −0.26%   −0.006     −0.66       −0.07%     0.038∗∗∗  3.58        0.40%     0.025∗∗   2.49         0.28%
HHIFirm                   0.271∗∗∗  8.53        3.10%    0.340∗∗∗   8.11        3.98%     0.148∗∗∗  3.94        1.55%     0.239∗∗∗  6.90         2.73%
Inst                      0.196∗∗∗  4.16        2.24%    0.195∗∗∗   3.87        2.28%     0.012     0.27        0.12%     0.117∗∗∗  2.74         1.33%

                                                                                                                                               (continued)

                                                                                                                                                             957
                                                                                                                                                 958




                                                               Table III—Continued

                                                       Dependent Variable = Takeover

                                          Discount = Discount(Q)                                  Discount = Discount(EV/Ebitda)
                       Industry-Specific Frontier        Firm-Specific Frontier        Industry-Specific Frontier     Firm-Specific Frontier
                        Coef     t-Stat     dPr/dX      Coef       t-Stat    dPr/dX     Coef     t-Stat   dPr/dX      Coef    t-Stat   dPr/dX

HHISIC3               0.008     0.12         0.08%   −0.057    −1.07         −0.67%    0.105     1.41      1.11%    −0.007    −0.12    −0.09%
Amihud               −0.124∗∗∗ −4.50        −1.42%   −0.097∗∗∗ −4.03         −1.14%   −0.057∗∗∗ −5.29     −0.60%    −0.050∗∗∗ −4.39    −0.57%

# obs, pseudo R2 , and 100,160    0.020      6.18%    100,166        0.015    6.18%    79,100     0.018     6.24%    79,103    0.017     6.24%
  all-sample frequency
Weak instrument tests
  F(1, # obs) and                95.38       0.00                  167.15     0.00               38.00      0.00              91.39      0.00
                                                                                                                                                 The Journal of FinanceR

    p-value
Exogeneity tests
  Wald statistics and             7.71       0.01                    8.21     0.00                7.93      0.01               8.04      0.01
    p-value
                     The Real Effects of Financial Markets                    959

  Table III quantifies the trigger effect—the impact of discount changes on the
probability of a takeover. In this section, we attempt to estimate the extent to
which shocks to takeover probability affect the discount, for example, due to
the anticipation effect.
  One way to identify the effect of takeover vulnerability (i.e., Takeover∗ ) on
Discount would be to use an instrumental variable that impacts Takeover∗ but
does not affect Discount directly. Firm-specific variables usually do not satisfy
this exclusion restriction. Valid instruments could come from the “supply side,”
such as capital inflows to buyout funds or interest rates that proxy for the ease
of financing. However, such instruments suffer from low power because they
fail to generate variation in the cross-section.
  We therefore adopt a different approach. We identify the effect of the shocks
to takeover vulnerability on Discount (i.e., the δ term in equation (8) by us-
ing the intermediate and final outputs from estimating equation (9)). Recall
equation (11),

                                 = δξ + η ,
                               Discount

which shows that the anticipation coefficient δ is a linear projection of the
residual discount (defined in (11)) on ξ , the residual in the takeover equation.
We can therefore construct a δ estimate by regressing the empirical analog of
                     
residual discount ( Discount) on the empirical analog of ξ (   ξ ). The empirical
analog 
       Discount is readily available from (11). For the empirical analog ξ  , we
adopt the “generalized residual” for discrete response models as proposed by
Gourieroux et al. (1987),
                                  
                      [Takeover − Pr(Takeover)]  (Takeover)
                                                Pr
                 =
                 ξ                                            ,
                          Pr(Takeover)[1 − 
                                          Pr(Takeover)]
                                      
        Takeover and Pr
where Pr                    Takeover represent the estimated probability
and density (derivative of probability) of Takeover, respectively. Assuming that
error disturbances are drawn from normal distributions, the above expression
becomes
                               [Takeover − (u)]φ(
                                                  u)
                          =
                          ξ                          ,                       (14)
                                     u)[1 − (
                                    (       u)]
where u=  μ1 Discount + μ 2 X + μ
                                   3 Z1 , with and φ representing the cumula-
tive distribution function and the density function of the standard normal
distribution, respectively.
   The results from all four specifications are reported in Table IV. Our es-
timates for the coefficient δ are uniformly negative, as expected, and highly
statistically significant. The economic magnitude of the coefficients is not read-
ily interpretable because ξ is a shock to the propensity of takeover, which
does not have a natural unit. One way to interpret the economic significance
of our results is to consider the effect of a one percentage point increase in
the probability of a takeover on the discount. This is given by [dDiscount/dξ ]/
960                               The Journal of FinanceR

                                            Table IV
               The Feedback Effect from Takeover to Discount
This table reports the estimation of the system (8)–(9) through a regression of residual Discount
from equation (11) on shocks to Takeover from equation (14). All standard errors are adjusted for
heteroskedasticity and correlation double-clustering at the year and firm levels, as well as for the
variation from the first-stage estimation. The associated t-statistics are reported in the brackets.
∗ , ∗∗ , and ∗∗∗ indicate statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.


Residual Discount                     Discount(Q)                        Discount(EV/Ebitda)
Frontier                       Industry             Firm            Industry            Firm

ξ (Shocks in Takeover∗ )       −0.163∗∗∗         −0.140∗∗∗          −0.266∗∗∗         −0.193∗∗∗
                               [−32.40]          [−18.66]           [−32.92]          [−33.96]
# obs                          100,160           100,166             79,100            79,103
R2                                0.040             0.046              0.109             0.048


[d Pr(Takeover)/dξ ]. From Table IV, using Discount(Q, Industry), we have
dDiscount/dξ = −0.163. Since Pr(Takeover) is nonlinear in ξ , d Pr(Takeover)/dξ
varies with Pr(Takeover). Taking the average firm, for which Pr(Takeover) =
6.2%, we obtain d Pr(Takeover)/dξ = 0.136 and thus a one percentage point
increase in the probability of a takeover is expected to reduce the discount by
approximately 1.2 (= 0.163/0.136) percentage points for the average firm.
   Based on this estimation, we can now assess the extent to which the co-
efficient δ is likely to capture the anticipation effect versus other sources of
endogeneity. Given the average takeover premium of approximately 40%, a
one percentage point increase in takeover probability should reduce the dis-
count by 0.4 percentage points due to the anticipation effect. Therefore, for the
average firm, our estimated δ is larger than what can be solely attributed to
the anticipation effect. The remaining 0.8 (= 1.2 − 0.4) percentage points may
stem from other sources. First, a more negative δ might be capturing the fact
that an increase in the probability of a takeover in a given year leads to higher
takeover probabilities in future years and hence to a greater reduction in the
discount. Indeed, a simple calculation shows that, for the average firm, a one
percentage point increase in the probability of takeover in a given year can
lead to a 1.2 percentage point decrease in the discount if it also leads to an
increase in takeover probabilities in future years.19 Second, a more negative
δ may result from omitted variables, for example, a firm-specific technological
shock may increase the probability that the firm becomes a takeover target
(due to new potential synergies) and decrease the discount (due to the increase
in firm valuation).
   An interesting implication of the quantification of an anticipation effect is
that it allows us to decompose the determinants of a firm’s discount into two
parts. The first part is the direct effect of certain firm characteristics or policies

   19 The full magnitude of the estimated δ could be accounted for if we allow the anticipation

effect to incorporate the probability of receiving a takeover bid in all future years (discounted
appropriately). Since our formal analysis is at the firm-year level, it is limited to capturing the
relation between the discount and takeover shocks in the following year.
                         The Real Effects of Financial Markets                                961

on valuation; the second is the indirect effect of such characteristics or policies
via their impact on takeover probability. To illustrate this point, consider the
variable Amihud. From Table II, we see that, using Discount(Q, Industry), a one
unit increase in Amihud is associated with a 8.38 percentage point increase in
Discount. We also learn from Table III that a one unit increase in Amihud
decreases takeover propensity (measured by Takeover∗ ) by −0.124, which,
according to Table IV, leads to an increase of 1.69 (= −0.124 × (−0.136)) per-
centage points in Discount. Hence, the overall effect of Amihud on Discount—
8.38 percentage points—can be decomposed into an indirect effect via the im-
pact on takeover likelihood (1.69 percentage points) and a direct effect on price
(6.69 percentage points). Thus, while it is well known that illiquidity reduces a
firm’s market valuation, this decomposition demonstrates that approximately
20% of this effect arises indirectly through the reduced takeover probability.
   We are unable to perform a similar decomposition using governance variables
(such as the Gompers, Ishii, and Metrick (2003) shareholder rights measure
or the Bebchuk, Cohen, and Ferrell (2009) entrenchment index) because they
are only available for one-third of our sample, reducing the power of our tests
(see also footnote 15). For a similar reason, our methodology estimates a single
trigger effect and a single anticipation effect across the whole sample; we are
unable to make these effects depend on firm governance. There is also another
reason we are unable to allow the anticipation effect to differ across governance,
or any other firm characteristic (even if such data were available for the full
sample)—any such characteristic should also belong to Z1 (a vector of variables
that proxy for managerial agency), which enters in both equations (8) and (9).
         and 
Both Discount       ξ (the estimated shock to takeover) are thus, by construction,
orthogonal to Z1 and hence to proxies of governance.20


                                IV. Additional Analyses
A. Discount, Takeover Premium, and Acquirer Return
  In equilibrium, we would expect our discount measure to be positively corre-
lated with the premium paid to the target, as well as with the acquirer return.
A higher discount implies greater gains from a corrective takeover. Thus, as
long as the target has some bargaining power, it should capture a proportion
of these gains in the form of a higher premium. Similarly, as long as the ac-
quirer has some bargaining power, it should also realize a higher gain when
the discount is higher.
  As is standard in the literature, we calculate Premium as the percentage
increase in the target’s stock price over the [−60, 0] window relative to the
announcement date,21 and AcquirerRET as the [−1, +1] percentage increase
in the acquirer’s stock price above the CRSP value-weighted index. We find
   20 The idea of making coefficients dependent on other parameters is feasible in standard regres-

sions but is not possible here because we have a “residual on residual” regression rather than a
standard regression, and by construction the residuals are orthogonal to the covariates.
   21 The results are qualitatively similar using alternative windows (such as [−40, 0]) or the
962                              The Journal of FinanceR

that both are positively and significantly correlated with Discount: averaging
across all four Discount measures, the correlation coefficients are 7.2% and
1.8%, respectively. By the same logic, a measure of total return from the acqui-
sition (TotalRET = Premium + AcquirerRET) should also be positively corre-
lated with the discount. Indeed, the average correlation coefficient is 7.4%.
   To further explore the relation between Discount and the three measures
of acquisition return, we run regressions of these measures on Discount, con-
trolling for other determinants of these measures. The regressions appear in
the Internet Appendix. The relationship between Discount and both Premium
and TotalRET retains its significance in all specifications after the addition of
controls. Importantly, while the relationship between Premium and Discount
remains highly significant, it is still far from one. This suggests that the ac-
quirer does indeed enjoy part of the gains from buying a discounted target,
and is thus consistent with our main result that acquirers are more likely to
target discounted firms. The relationship between Discount and Acquirer RET
remains significant in the EV /Ebitda specifications. In the Q regressions, the
association is positive but not statistically significant, perhaps because mea-
sures of acquirer return are noisy, as is known in the literature.22


B. Financially Driven Takeovers
  The results thus far document that takeovers in general are driven by low
target valuations. However, certain acquisitions are motivated by other fac-
tors, such as synergies or empire building. As such, the trigger effect should be
stronger among takeovers that are particularly likely to be valuation-driven.
We classify these “financially driven takeovers” as acquisitions that are ei-
ther leveraged buyouts or undertaken by financial sponsors. Such acquisitions
are typically motivated by underperforming current management or market
undervaluation, both of which manifest in low market prices. There are a
number of reasons for these different motives. First, the aforementioned syn-
ergy and empire-building motives for standard acquisitions do not exist to the
same degree for LBOs: targets typically remain standalone, and LBO man-
agers are compensated by carried interest above a threshold rate of return. By
contrast, for regular corporations, Bebchuk and Grinstein (2009) find a signif-
icant link between firm expansion and CEO pay. Second, the LBO structure
was designed precisely to correct agency problems. The high debt (compared
to standard M&A deals) imposes discipline on the manager by forcing him to

actual premium paid. The latter is available for a smaller subsample as transaction terms are
often missing.
    22 There are a number of challenges with measuring acquirer returns accurately. First, there

is significant long-run drift after an M&A announcement (Agrawal, Jaffe, and Mandelker (1992)),
making it hard to define an event window that is isolated from other corporate events. Second, the
M&A announcement only reflects the value creation/destruction relative to what was anticipated
by the market. Third, the M&A announcement return implicitly assumes that the counterfactual
if the deal had not been undertaken is zero (Prabhala (1997), Li and Prabhala (2007)), which may
not be the case.
                     The Real Effects of Financial Markets                       963

disgorge excess cash, and concentrates his equity stake to provide incentives
(see, e.g., Jensen (1989) and Edmans (2011)). Third, the literature summa-
rized in Section I.A systematically finds that LBO gains arise from correcting
underperformance.
   We repeat the trigger effect analysis of Table III, removing all nonfinan-
cially driven takeovers from the sample and report the results in Table V,
Panel A. Indeed, the effect of Discount becomes stronger relative to the smaller
unconditional probability. An interquartile change in Discount is associated
with a 2.2% increase in the probability of a financially driven takeover. The
full-sample probability of such a takeover is 1.3%, compared to the 6.2% prob-
ability of any takeover. In addition, we repeat the anticipation effect analysis
of Table IV and report the results in Table V, Panel B.


C. Robustness Checks
   In this section we report results from further robustness checks. First, we
check the sensitivity of our results to the choice of α = 0.20 as our default
percentile for frontier values. As discussed earlier, such a choice reflects the
trade-off between reducing the influence of outliers and not underestimating
potential values. Higher α values are associated with lower aggregate values
of Discount. The Internet Appendix indicates that the correlation of Discount
estimates based on different quantile restrictions around α = 0.20 (our default
value) is extremely high (above 0.89). Since our analysis is driven by the relative
ranking (rather than the absolute level) of Discount, it is not surprising that
our results for various α values in the range of [0.1, 0.3] are similar to those
reported in Tables II to IV.
   Second, we estimate the firm-specific frontier using tercile ranks rather than
raw measures of the X variables, to allow bidders to change these variables
within a given tercile. However, for firms already close to the tercile cutoffs,
it is easier for bidders to move these variables into a different tercile. We
therefore rerun the analyses excluding firms within 2.5% of any tercile thresh-
old. The Internet Appendix shows that the results are just as strong as in
the full sample in Table III, with an interquartile response of 6.0% to 7.8%
relative to an unconditional takeover probability of around 6% for this sub-
sample. A related concern is that, in merger waves (which may be driven
by regulatory changes), fundamentals may be particularly likely to change.
The Internet Appendix removes both aggregate merger waves (in Panel A)
and industry merger waves (in Panel B) and finds that the results are little
changed.
   Finally, our analysis focuses on bids announced rather than completed, since
the target’s valuation is likely to have greatest effect on an acquirer’s decision to
bid. Whether the takeover is subsequently completed often depends on factors
unrelated to valuation, for example, antitrust concerns. Nevertheless, we re-
run the data defining takeover as completed deals (76.5% of the deals in our
sample) and tabulate the equivalent of Table III in the Internet Appendix. The
results are again qualitatively similar.
964                                The Journal of FinanceR

                                              Table V
                             Financially Driven Takeovers
This table repeats the analyses in Table III (Panel A) and Table IV (Panel B) but only studies
takeovers that are either leveraged buyouts and/or undertaken by financial sponsors. All takeovers
are removed from the sample. Other t-statistics are reported in the brackets below the coefficient.
∗ , ∗∗ , and ∗∗∗ indicate statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.


                      Panel A: Effect of Discount on Takeover with Feedback

Discount                                      Discount(Q)                Discount(EV/Ebitda)
Frontier                             Industry           Firm          Industry           Firm

Discount                                1.481∗∗∗         1.414∗∗∗       1.471∗∗∗          1.448∗∗∗
                                       [3.96]           [4.06]         [3.45]            [3.60]
(dPr/dX)                                4.76%            4.32%          4.69%             4.51%
(effect of interquartile change)        2.29%            2.11%          2.21%             2.23%
SalesRank                             −0.376∗∗∗        −0.178∗        −0.523∗∗∗           0.019
                                     [−3.05]          [−1.88]        [−3.21]             [0.24]
R&D                                     0.019∗           0.056∗∗∗       0.100             1.094
                                       [1.81]           [3.65]         [0.16]            [1.36]
ATO                                     0.146∗∗∗         0.135∗∗∗     −0.020              0.095∗∗∗
                                       [6.28]           [6.37]       [−0.62]             [6.26]
MktShr                                  0.187            0.098        −0.051            −0.091
                                       [1.22]           [0.74]       [−0.44]           [−0.83]
Growth                                  0.088∗∗∗         0.050∗∗∗       0.071∗            0.074∗
                                       [3.72]           [3.25]         [1.67]            [1.81]
BetaAsset                               0.094          −0.320∗∗∗      −0.118            −0.266∗∗∗
                                       [0.79]        [−10.43]        [−1.61]           [−6.58]
Leverage                                0.141∗∗∗         0.034          0.214∗∗∗          0.151∗∗∗
                                       [3.25]           [0.82]         [4.37]            [3.10]
Payout                                −0.009             0.002          0.050∗∗∗          0.044∗∗∗
                                     [−0.54]            [0.12]         [3.72]            [3.56]
HHIFirm                                 0.126∗∗          0.258∗∗∗       0.061             0.169∗∗∗
                                       [2.33]           [3.72]         [1.24]            [2.88]
Inst                                    0.469∗∗∗         0.549∗∗∗       0.234∗∗∗          0.455∗∗∗
                                       [8.03]           [8.13]         [2.61]            [7.23]
HHISIC3                                 0.096          −0.031           0.102           −0.041
                                       [1.13]         [−0.42]          [1.03]          [−0.51]
Amihud                                −0.134∗∗∗        −0.132∗∗∗      −0.031∗           −0.034∗
                                     [−4.08]          [−4.23]        [−1.67]           [−1.88]
Constant                              −2.658∗∗∗        −2.382∗∗∗      −1.990∗∗∗         −2.465∗∗∗
                                    [−33.31]         [−16.89]        [−6.75]          [−15.95]

Probability of takeover                1.38%             1.38%         1.45%             1.45%
# obs                                 94,802            94,808         74,901           74,904
Pseudo R2                              0.037             0.032         0.041             0.040
Exogeneity tests
Wald statistic                         6.14             7.95            4.56             5.36
p-value                                0.01             0.00            0.03             0.02
                           The Real Effects of Financial Markets                      965

                                      Table V—Continued

                    Panel B: The Feedback Effect from Takeover to Discount

Residual Discount                      Discount(Q)                  Discount(EV/Ebitda)
Frontier                        Industry             Firm        Industry          Firm

ξ (Shocks in Takeover∗ )        −0.272∗∗∗        −0.343∗∗∗        −0.375∗∗∗       −0.381∗∗∗
                              [−12.73]         [−15.39]         [−11.27]        [−12.24]

# obs                           94,802           94,808           74,901          74,904
R2                               3.59%            5.80%            6.55%           6.98%




                                      V. Conclusion
   This paper provides evidence on the real effects of financial markets. Us-
ing nonfundamental shocks to market prices—occurring due to nondiscre-
tionary trades by mutual funds that face liquidation pressure from investors’
outflows—as an instrumental variable, we show that market prices affect
takeover activity. A nonfundamental decrease in the stock price creates a profit
opportunity for acquirers and increases the probability that the firm will be
taken over. Using an instrument for price changes is essential for identify-
ing this effect since market prices are endogenous and reflect the likelihood
of an upcoming acquisition. This may explain the weak relationship between
prices and takeover activity found by prior literature. By modeling the rela-
tionship between prices and takeovers as a simultaneous system that accounts
for anticipation, and by identifying the trigger effect using an instrument,
we find a significantly stronger effect of prices on takeovers than previous
research.
   Our findings have a number of implications for the takeover market. They
imply a double-edged sword for the disciplinary effect of takeover threat. The
trigger effect suggests that managerial underperformance increases takeover
vulnerability to a much greater extent than previously documented. However,
the anticipation effect reduces the sensitivity of takeovers to a firm’s underlying
inefficiency. More generally, the importance of market prices suggests that they
are not simply a sideshow but rather affect real economic activity: temporary
mispricing can have real consequences by impacting takeover probability.
   While our paper demonstrates that market prices have an effect on takeover
probability, it is silent on the mechanism behind this effect. It is plausible that
market prices have an effect because agents try to learn from them, and, as a re-
sult, rely on them when making various decisions. In the context of takeovers, a
possible mechanism is that target shareholders use the market price to update
their view about the value of the firm and hence demand a price that is related
to the market price, while acquirers, who know more about the potential value
under their management, identify a profit opportunity when the price goes
down and are more likely to launch a bid for the firm. Interestingly, traditional
takeover theories do not incorporate such asymmetric information and learning
966                         The Journal of FinanceR

from prices. In a framework with symmetric information, if there is free-riding
by target shareholders (as in Grossman and Hart (1980)), the bidder must pay
the potential value V ∗ regardless of the current price because target share-
holders have full bargaining power. Even if the bidder has some bargaining
power, it should bargain with the target over the underlying Discount0 rather
than the observed Discount, since it is the former that represents the potential
fundamental value that can be created. Regardless of the source of a high mar-
ket valuation, it has no effect on takeover likelihood if viewed symmetrically
by the bidder and the target. If high valuation is due to positive news about
fundamentals (as in Schwert (1996)), both the bidder and the target will agree
that a higher takeover price is warranted. Since the superior fundamentals
also increase the target’s value to the acquirer, the bidder is fully willing to
pay the higher price and so the target’s attractiveness is unchanged. If high
valuation is instead due to mispricing, both the bidder and the target will agree
that it should not lead to a high takeover price and so takeover likelihood is
again unaffected. Our findings thus suggest the need for new takeover theories
to explain why market prices should impact acquisition likelihood.
   While our analysis is able to identify the trigger and anticipation effects sep-
arately, we are only able to estimate an average trigger effect and an average
anticipation effect across the full sample, rather than allow these effects to de-
pend on firm characteristics such as governance, due to limitations of the data
and methodology described earlier. In future research it would be interesting to
extend our analysis to study the firm-level determinants of these effects. Song
and Walkling (2000) show how peer firms’ stock price reaction to a merger in
their industry depends on characteristics related to the probability of acquisi-
tion. While they study a one-time “event-study” effect, our anticipation effect
corresponds to the shrinkage of discount that exists in steady state. The trigger
effect may similarly depend on firm-level factors.
   There are many other settings in which the interaction between the financial
market and the real economy is important. These include the impact of market
prices on investment decisions, CEO replacement, and other real activities. It
is typically difficult to identify a real effect of the financial market since, even
if there is a correlation between prices and real activity, it may be driven by
an omitted variable that affects both, or it may be attenuated by the antic-
ipation effect. We are able to identify the active role of the financial market
by exploring the effects of nonfundamental changes in the price that are not
directly correlated with real activity. This insight can be used to explore the
empirical relation between financial markets and real activities in these other
settings.



                               Appendix A: Data
  This section details the calculation of the mutual fund price pressure vari-
able. We obtain quarterly data on mutual fund holdings from CDA Spec-
trum/Thomson and mutual fund flows from CRSP. We remove funds that
                      The Real Effects of Financial Markets                            967

specialize in a single industry and calculate

                           Outflow j,t = −F j,t /T Aj,t−1 ,

where j (= 1, . . . , m) indexes mutual funds, t represents one quarter, F j,t is the
total inflow experienced by fund j in quarter t, and T Aj,t−1 is fund j’s total
assets at the end of the previous quarter. We then construct
                                             
                                             m
                                               F j,t si, j,t−1
                            MFFlowi,t =
                                                VOLi,t
                                              j=1

for each stock-quarter pair, where i (= 1, . . . , n) indexes stocks and the sum-
mation is only over funds j for which Outflow j,t ≥ 5%. The term VOLi,t is total
dollar trading volume of stock i in quarter t , and
                                       SHARESi,j,t × PRCi,t
                           si, j,t =
                                            T Aj,t

is the dollar value of fund j’s holdings of stock i as a proportion of fund j’s
total assets at the end of the quarter. Substitution gives our mutual fund price
pressure measure as
                              
                              m
                                F j,t × SHARESi, j,t−1 × PRCi,t−1
               MFFlowi,t =                                                   ,
                                             T Aj,t−1 × V OLi,t
                               j=1

where the summation is only over funds j for which Out f low j,t ≥ 5%. Finally,
we sum MFFlow across the four quarters in a given calendar year.


                    Appendix B: Estimation Procedures
  This section derives the full-information maximum likelihood (FIML) likeli-
hood function for equation (9). The likelihood of an individual takeover in our
simultaneous equation model is as follows, omitting the i and t subscripts for
brevity:

    L = g(Takeover = 1, Discount)Takeover g(Takeover = 0, Discount)1−Takeover ,

where the joint density function g is
                                              ∞
          g(Takeover = 1, Discount) =                                   f (ξ, η) dξ,   (B1)
                                              −μ1 Discount−μ2 X−μ3 Z1

and
                                             −μ1 Discount−μ2 X−μ3 Z1
          g(Takeover = 0, Discount) =                                   f (ξ, η) dξ,   (B2)
                                             −∞

and f (ξ, η) is the bivariate density function (assumed to be normal for es-
timation purposes), which can be expressed as the product of a conditional
968                              The Journal of FinanceR

distribution and a marginal distribution:

                                    f (ξ, η) = f (ξ |η) f (η).

The conditional distribution f (ξ |η) is normal with mean ρξ,η η/ση and variance
1 − ρξ,η
     2
         , where ρ and σ are the standard notation for correlation coefficient and
standard deviation. Therefore the joint density function of (B1), assuming all
variables are jointly normal, can be rewritten as
                               ⎛                                        ⎞
                                                                             
                                  μ  Discount + μ  X + μ Z  + ρ ξ,η η/ση⎠     η
g(Takeover = 1, Discount) = ⎝
                                   1             2      3 1
                                                                         φ      ,
                                                 1 − ρ2                      ση
                                                                 ξ,η

and and φ are the cumulative probability and density functions of the stan-
dard normal distribution. Equation (B2) can be rewritten analogously. Combin-
ing all equations, we arrive at the log likelihood for a takeover on a firm-year
observation:
                                                                                                 η2
li,t = Takeoveri,t ln[ (ui,t−1 )] + (1 − Takeoveri,t ) ln[1 −          (ui,t−1 )] − ln(ση ) −        ,
                                                                                                2ση2
                                                                                                (B3)
where
                           μ1 Discount + μ2 X + μ3 Z1 + ρξ,η η/ση
                       u=                                        ,
                                           1 − ρξ,η
                                                2

                       η = Discount − γ1 Z1 − γ2 Z2 .

  The estimation methodology is FIML. It is “full information” because it em-
ploys the full information about the joint distribution of f (ξ, η) by using the
conditional distribution f (ξ |η) and the marginal distribution f (η) simultane-
ously. Further, it is a “maximum likelihood” estimator and thus provides the
most efficient estimates (i.e., attains the Cramer–Rao bound) to the extent that
the model is correctly specified.


                                      REFERENCES
Admati, Anat, and Paul Pfleiderer, 2009, The “Wall Street Walk” and shareholder activism: Exit
    as a form of voice, Review of Financial Studies 22, 2645–2685.
Agrawal, Anup, and Jeffrey F. Jaffe, 2003, Do takeover targets underperform? Evidence from
    operating and stock returns, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 38, 721–746.
Agrawal, Anup, Jeffrey F. Jaffe, and Gerson N. Mandelker, 1992, The post-merger performance of
    acquiring firms: A re-examination of an anomaly, Journal of Finance 47, 1605–1621.
Aigner, Dennis, C.A. Knox Lovell, and Peter Schmidt, 1977, Formulation and estimation of stochas-
    tic frontier production function models, Journal of Econometrics 6, 11–37.
Ambrose, Brent, and William Megginson, 1992, The role of asset structure, ownership structure,
    and takeover defenses in determining acquisition likelihood, Journal of Financial and Quan-
    titative Analysis 27, 575–589.
Amihud, Yakov, 2002, Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time series effects, Journal
    of Financial Markets 5, 31–56.
                         The Real Effects of Financial Markets                                969

Andrade, Gregor, Mark Mitchell, and Erik Stafford, 2001, New evidence and perspectives on
    mergers, Journal of Economic Perspectives 15, 103–120.
Baker, George, and Karen Wruck, 1989, Organizational changes and value creation in leveraged
    buyouts: The case of the O.M. Scott and Sons Company, Journal of Financial Economics 25,
    163–190.
Baker, Malcolm, Xin Pan, and Jeffrey Wurgler, 2012, The effect of reference point prices on mergers
    and acquisitions, Journal of Financial Economics, forthcoming.
Baker, Malcolm, Richard Ruback, and Jeffrey Wurgler, 2007, Behavioral corporate finance: A
    survey, in Espen Eckbo, ed. Handbook of Corporate Finance: Empirical Corporate Finance
    (Elsevier/North Holland, New York).
Baker, Malcolm, Jeremy C. Stein, and Jeffrey Wurgler, 2003, When does the market matter? Stock
    prices and the investment of equity dependent firms, Quarterly Journal of Economics 118,
    969–1006.
Bates, Thomas W., David A. Becher, and Michael L. Lemmon, 2008, Board classification and man-
    agerial entrenchment: Evidence from the market for corporate control, Journal of Financial
    Economics 87, 656–677.
Bebchuk, Lucian A., Alma Cohen, and Allen Ferrell, 2009, What matters in corporate governance?
    Review of Financial Studies 22, 787–827.
Bebchuk, Lucian A., and Yaniv Grinstein, 2009, Firm expansion and CEO pay, Working paper,
    Harvard University.
Betton, Sandra, and B. Espen Eckbo, 2000, Toeholds, bid-jumps, and expected payoffs in takeovers,
    Review of Financial Studies 13, 841–882.
Betton, Sandra, B. Espen Eckbo, and Karin Thorburn, 2008, Corporate takeovers, in Espen Eckbo,
    ed. Handbook of Corporate Finance: Empirical Corporate Finance (Elsevier/North Holland,
    New York).
Bond, Philip, Alex Edmans, and Itay Goldstein, 2012, The real effects of financial markets, Annual
    Review of Financial Economics, forthcoming.
Bond, Phillip, Itay Goldstein, and Edward Simpson Prescott, 2010, Market-based corrective ac-
    tions, Review of Financial Studies 23, 781–820.
Bradley, Michael, Alon Brav, Itay Goldstein, and Wei Jiang, 2010, Activist arbitrage: A study of
    open-ending attempts of closed-end funds, Journal of Financial Economics 95, 1–19.
Brealey, Richard A., Stewart C. Myers, and Franklin Allen, 2010, Principles of Corporate Finance
    (McGraw-Hill, New York)
Chen, Qi, Itay Goldstein, and Wei Jiang, 2007, Price informativeness and investment sensitivity
    to stock price, Review of Financial Studies 22, 1409–1445.
Coval, Joshua, and Erik Stafford, 2007, Asset fire sales (and purchases) in equity markets, Journal
    of Financial Economics 86, 479–512.
Cremers, Martijn, Vinay B. Nair, and Kose John, 2009, Takeovers and the cross-section of returns,
    Review of Financial Studies 22, 1409–1445.
Dong, Ming, David Hirshleifer, Scott Richardson, and Siew Hong Teoh, 2006, Does investor mis-
    valuation drive the takeover market? Journal of Finance 61, 725–762.
Dow, James, Itay Goldstein, and Alexander Guembel, 2010, Incentives for information pro-
    duction in markets where prices affect real investment, Working paper, London Business
    School.
Dow, James, and Gary Gorton, 1997, Stock market efficiency and economic efficiency: Is there a
    connection? Journal of Finance 52, 1087–1129.
Duffie, Darrell, 2010, Asset price dynamics with slow-moving capital, Journal of Finance 65,
    1238–1268.
Eckbo, B. Espen, and Karin S. Thorburn, 2008, Corporate restructuring: Breakups and LBO’s,
    in B. Espen Eckbo, ed. Handbook of Corporate Finance: Empirical Corporate Finance
    (Elsevier/North Holland, New York).
Edmans, Alex, 2009, Blockholder trading, market efficiency, and managerial myopia, Journal of
    Finance 62, 2481–2513.
Edmans, Alex, 2011, Short-term termination without deterring long-term investment: A theory of
    debt and buyouts, Journal of Financial Economics 102, 81–101.
970                               The Journal of FinanceR

Edmans, Alex, and Gustavo Manso, 2011, Governance through trading and intervention: A theory
     of multiple blockholders, Review of Financial Studies 24, 2395–2428.
Fishman, Michael, and Kathleen Hagerty, 1992, Insider trading and the efficiency of stock prices,
     RAND Journal of Economics 23, 106–122.
Giroud, Xavier, and Holger M. Mueller, 2010, Does corporate governance matter in competitive
     industries? Journal of Financial Economics 95, 312–331.
Goldstein, Itay, and Alexander Guembel, 2008, Manipulation and the allocation role of prices,
     Review of Economic Studies 75, 133–164.
Gompers, Paul, Joy Ishii, and Andrew Metrick, 2003, Corporate governance and equity prices,
     Quarterly Journal of Economics 118, 107–155.
Gourieroux, Christian, Alain Monfort, Eric Renault, and Alain Trognon, 1987, Generalized resid-
     uals, Journal of Econometrics 34, 4–32.
Grossman, Sanford J., and Oliver D. Hart, 1980, Takeover bids, the free-rider problem, and the
     theory of the corporation, Bell Journal of Economics 11, 42–64.
Habib, Michael, and Alexander Ljungqvist, 2005, Firm value and managerial incentives: A stochas-
     tic frontier approach, Journal of Business 78, 2053–2094.
Hackbarth, Dirk, and Erwan Morellec, 2008, Stock returns in mergers and acquisitions, Journal
     of Finance 63, 1213–1252.
Hoberg, Gerard, and Gordon M. Phillips, 2010, Real and financial industry booms and busts,
     Journal of Finance 65, 45–86.
Holmstrom, Bengt, and Jean Tirole, 1993, Market liquidity and performance monitoring, Journal
     of Political Economy 101, 678–709.
Hunt-McCool, Janet, Samuel Koh, and Bill Francis, 1996, Testing for deliberate underpricing
     in the IPO premarket: A stochastic frontier approach, Review of Financial Studies 9, 1251–
     1269.
Jensen, Michael C., 1989, Eclipse of the public corporation, Harvard Business Review 67, 61–74.
Jensen, Michael C., 1993, The modern industrial revolution, exit, and the failure of internal control
     systems, Journal of Finance 48, 831–880.
Jensen, Michael C., and Richard S. Ruback, 1983, The market for corporate control: The scientific
     evidence, Journal of Financial Economics 11, 5–50.
Kaplan, Steven N., 1989, The effects of management buyouts on operating performance and value,
     Journal of Financial Economics 24, 217–254.
Koenker, Roger, and Gilbert Bassett, 1978, Regression quantiles, Econometrica 46, 33–50.
Kumbhakar, Subal, and Knox Lovell, 2000, Stochastic Frontier Analysis (Cambridge University
     Press, Cambridge, MA).
Li, Kai, and N. R. Prabhala, 2007, Self-selection models in corporate finance, in Espen Eckbo, ed.
     Handbook of Corporate Finance: Empirical Corporate Finance (Elsevier/North Holland, New
     York).
Lichtenberg, Frank R., and Donald Siegel, 1990, The effects of leveraged buyouts on productivity
     and related aspects of firm behavior, Journal of Financial Economics 27, 165–194.
Manne, Henry, 1965, Mergers and the market for corporate control, Journal of Political Economy
     73, 110–120.
Marris, Robin, 1964, The Economic Theory of Managerial Capitalism (Macmillan, London).
Mikkelson, Wayne, and Megan Partch, 1989, Managers’ voting rights and corporate control, Jour-
     nal of Financial Economics 25, 163–190.
Morck, Randall, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert Vishny, 1990, The stock market and investment: Is
     the market a sideshow? Brookings Papers on Economic Activity 2, 157–202.
Muscarella, Chris J., and Michael R. Vetsuypens, 1990, Efficiency and organizational structure: A
     study of reverse LBOs, Journal of Finance 45, 1389–1413.
Palepu, Krishna, 1986, Predicting takeover targets: A methodological and empirical analysis,
     Journal of Accounting and Economics 8, 3–35.
Powell, James, 1984, Least absolute deviations estimation for the censored regression model,
     Journal of Econometrics 25, 303–325.
Prabhala, N. R., 1997, Conditional methods in event-studies and an equilibrium justification for
     using standard event-study methods, Review of Financial Studies 10, 1–38.
                         The Real Effects of Financial Markets                               971

Rhodes-Kropf, Matthew, David Robinson, and S. Viswanathan, 2005, Valuation waves and merger
    activity: The empirical evidence, Journal of Financial Economics 77, 561–603.
Rivers, Douglas, and Quang Vuong, 1988, Limited information estimators and exogeneity tests for
    simultaneous probit models, Journal of Econometrics 39, 347–366.
Schwert, G. William, 1996, Markup pricing in mergers and acquisitions, Journal of Financial
    Economics 41, 153–192.
Shivadasani, Anil, 1993, Board composition, ownership structure, and hostile takeovers, Journal
    of Accounting and Economics 16, 167–198.
Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert Vishny, 2003, Stock market driven acquisitions, Journal of Financial
    Economics 70, 295–311.
Sias, Richard, Laura T. Starks, and Sheridan Titman, 2006, Changes in institutional ownership
    and stock returns: Assessment and methodology, Journal of Business 79, 2869–2910.
Smith, Abbie J., 1990, Corporate ownership structure and performance: The case of management
    buyouts, Journal of Financial Economics 27, 143–164.
Song, Moon, and Ralph Walkling, 2000, Abnormal returns to rivals of acquisition targets: A test of
    the “acquisition probability hypothesis,” Journal of Financial Economics 55, 143–171.
Stein, Jeremy, 1996, Rational capital budgeting in an irrational world, Journal of Business 69,
    429–455.
Stock, James, and Motohiro Yogo, 2005, Testing for weak instruments in linear IV regression, in
    James Stock and Donald Andrews, eds. Identification and Inference for Econometric Models:
    A Festschrift in Honor of Thomas Rothenberg (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge).
Subrahmanyam, Avindar, and Sheridan Titman, 1999, The going-public decision and the develop-
    ment of financial markets, Journal of Finance 54, 1045–1082.
