Institutional Investment Constraints and Stock
                                         Prices∗

                  Jie Cao, Bing Han and Qinghai Wang




∗ Please address all correspondence to Bing Han, Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto,


Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S3E6. Phone: 416-946-0732; email: Bing.Han@Rotman.Utoronto.Ca.

Cao is from the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He can be reached at jiecao@cuhk.edu.hk, or (852)

3943-7757. Wang is from University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. He can be reached at wangq@uwm.edu

or (414) 229-3828. We thank an anonymous referee, Stephen Brown (the editor), Aydogan Alti,

Michael Brennan, John Griffin, Jean Helwege, David Hirshleifer, Kewei Hou, Jennifer Huang, Hao

Jiang, Jonathan Lewellen, Stefan Nagel, Laura Starks, Rene Stulz, Michael Stutzer, Siew-Hong Teoh,

Sheridan Titman, Ralph Walkling, Russ Wermers, Lu Zheng, and seminar participants at the Hong

Kong University of Science and Technology, Peking University, Ohio State University, University of

Texas at Austin, the Financial Management Association Meetings, and the Western Finance Associ-

ation Meetings for helpful discussions and comments. All remaining errors are our own. The work

described in this paper was partially supported by a grant from the Research Grant Council of the

Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China (Project No. CUHK 458212).
Abstract
We test the hypothesis that investment constraints in delegated portfolio management may
distort demand for stocks, leading to price underreaction to news and stock return predictability.
We find that institutions tend not to buy more of a stock with good news that they already
overweight; they are reluctant to sell a stock with bad news that they already underweight.
Stocks with good news overweighted by institutions subsequently outperform significantly stocks
with bad news underweighted by institutions. The impact of institutional investment constraints
shed new lights on asset pricing anomalies such as stock price momentum and post earnings
announcement drift.
I.         Introduction

         One of the most significant changes in the financial market has been the surge of delegated
portfolio management. An increasing portion of U.S. equities is managed by institutional in-
vestors such as pension funds and mutual funds. Different from individual investors, institutional
investors face a variety of constraints in their investment decisions. These constraints include
restrictions on the market capitalization and the style of stocks in the portfolio, position limits
on a stock or an industry, as well as restrictions on tracking errors, portfolio turnover and invest-
ment strategies allowed. Such constraints arise as a product of regulation, contract requirements
and agency considerations in delegated portfolio management (e.g., Almazan, Brown, Carlson,
and Chapman (2004)).

         This paper studies the implications of institutional investment constraints for stock demand
and valuation. Investment constraints may limit institutional investors’ ability to transfer their
information into portfolio positions. Institutions could even ignore their own information and
“go with the flow” (e.g., Maug and Naik (2011)). This dampened response to information may
induce price underreaction for stocks that are affected by institutional investment constraints
and generate cross-sectional return predictability as the mispricing subsequently gets corrected.

         To empirically measure institutional investment constraints and conduct tests of their im-
pact on institutions’ trading and stock prices, we focus on two sets of important institutional
investment constraints that are common yet have not been well-researched in the literature.
The first is the diversification requirement. The Investment Company Act of 1940 explicitly
requires that mutual funds must meet various investment diversification standards to qualify for
the “diversified” status and favorable tax treatment. The Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 (ERISA) requires that pension funds “diversify investments ... so as to minimize
the risk of large losses, unless under the circumstances it is clearly prudent not to do so”.1 Civil
legal penalties can be imposed on fiduciaries in a lawsuit for violation of ERISA’s diversification
     1
    See Section 404 of ERISA. While ERISA established guideline for private pension plan administration and
investment practices, the general guideline is widely adopted by public pension funds, bank trusts, and to a large
extent, mutual funds (See O’Barr and Conley (1992)).


                                                        1
requirements. In such lawsuits, defendants bear the burden of showing that their decision not
to diversify was clearly prudent.

       Institutional investors often are subject to both explicit and implicit tracking-error con-
straints in their investment decisions. The explicit tracking-error constraint as specified in
investment contracts restricts the maximal possible deviation of a money manager’s portfolio
from a given benchmark. Violation of such constraints can result in contract termination and
lawsuits.2 Even without contractual tracking-error constraint, portfolio managers have increas-
ingly emphasized the risk of underperforming a benchmark index. The risk of being wrong and
alone, popularly recognized as the “maverick risk,” is viewed as the greatest peril in investment
management by many practitioners (Arnott (2003)). The tracking-error restriction is the second
type of institutional investment constraints that motivate our study.

       The combination of diversification requirement and tracking-error restrictions could lead
to institutional investment decisions that are otherwise difficult to explain. Recent studies
document that institutions are reluctant to deviate from the market portfolio, or the benchmark
they are expected to beat (e.g., Lakonishok, Shleifer, and Vishny (1997), Chan, Chen, and
Lakonishok (2002), Cohen, Gompers, and Vuolteenaho (2002), Cremers and Petajisto (2009),
Lewellen (2011)). Such “benchmark investing” behavior contradicts predictions of neoclassic
models: institutional investors are usually viewed as being better informed than individual
investors. Thus, they should overweight stocks that have positive news and underweight stocks
with negative news. However, because diversification requirement and tracking-error restrictions,
money managers tend to hold large diversified portfolios that mimic closely the market portfolio
(or their policy/performance benchmark). Thus, they may not fully take advantage of their
information in their investment decisions. For example, Cohen et al. (2002) estimate that
institutions only capture about a third of the gains they could if they bought more of the stocks
they rated winners and sold more of the ones they rated losers.

       This paper provides further evidence that institutional investment constraints affect money
   2
    See, e.g., Pensions & Investments (May 12, 2003) which reports that Merrill Lynch Investment Managers
was accused of breaching tracking error limits on its equities mandate and paid 75 million pounds in settlement.


                                                       2
managers’ demand for stocks and trading behavior. Because of the diversification requirement
and tracking-error constraints, institutions could not or would not keep deviating from their
benchmark. We hypothesize that if money managers already overweight a stock, they may not
buy more of the stock, even if they receive positive information about the stock. If money
managers already underweight a stock, they may be reluctant to sell the stock, even if they
receive negative information about the stock. Such investment behavior may affect the valuation
of stocks and generate testable return patterns.

   Our basic hypothesis on the asset pricing implication of institutional investment constraints
can be illustrated with the following example. Suppose institutions receive a positive signal
about a stock, but they already overweight this stock. When investment constraints become
binding (e.g., the signal or the overweight is large enough), then institutions’ demand schedule
for the stock will not shift up by as much as it would without the investment constraints. In
other words, their demand for the stock at a given price would be lower than the benchmark case
without the investment constraints. When demand curve for stock is downward sloping, stock
with good news that is already overweighted by the institutions would have a lower market-
clearing price than the case without the investment constraints. In this sense, the stock is
undervalued because the good news is not fully reflected in the market price, thus setting up a
higher future returns. Similarly, institutions may be constrained from selling stocks that they
already underweight, even when they have negative information about the stocks. Thus, stocks
with bad news but underweighted by the institutions are overvalued (as the bad news is not
fully reflected in the market price) and would have abnormally low future returns.

   The impact of investment constraints on stock prices generates cross-sectional differences
in stock returns that depend on both the direction of institutional investment constraints and
the signs of informational signals. For example, when institutions receive good news about a
stock, institutions’ buying constraints are more likely to be binding if they already overweight
the stock than if they underweight it. Thus, among stocks that are having good news, those
stocks currently overweighted by institutions would experience more price underreactions and

                                               3
deliver higher future returns than those stocks currently underweighted by institutions. Simi-
larly, institutions would have more constraints selling a stock with bad news when they already
underweight it. Thus, among stocks that are experiencing bad news, those stocks currently
underweighted by institutions tend to subsequently underperform those currently overweighted
by institutions. Finally, for stocks without significant news, institutional investment constraints
should have little impact on stock prices. Thus, no significant differences are expected in the
future returns of stocks that institutions currently overweight and those they underweight, when
the stocks do not have significant news.

   Using quarterly data on institutional equity holdings between 1980 and 2013, we construct
two measures of institutional investment constraints for each stock and in each quarter. We
compute the fraction of institutions that overweight the stock as well as the abnormal level of
aggregate institutional ownership of the stock. The overweight/underweight measures capture
the essence of diversification requirement and tracking-error restrictions. We use two proxies for
news, one based on stock return over a relatively short horizon (e.g., six months), and the other
based on firm’s quarterly earning surprises.

   We find direct evidence that investment constraints affect institutional trading behavior.
Institutions are reluctant to buy stocks they already overweight or sell stocks they already
underweight. More importantly, empirical tests strongly support our hypotheses on the asset
pricing impact of institutional investment constraints. Among stocks that are having good
news, those that institutions already overweight significantly outperform in the future those that
institutions underweight. Similarly, for stocks that are having bad news, those that institutions
underweight subsequently underperform those that institutions overweight. Our results are
consistent across all combinations of constraints measures and information proxies.

   Our tests reveal interesting interactions between institutional investment constraints and
well-known asset pricing anomalies such as stock price momentum and post-earnings announcement-
drift. For example, we find that a refined momentum strategy which buys only the winner stocks
that the institutions overweight and shorts the loser stocks that institutions underweight is sig-

                                                4
nificantly more profitable than the simple momentum strategy that buys all past winners and
shorts all past losers. We also find stronger post earnings announcement drifts for stocks expe-
riencing greater institutional investment constraints.

       To the extent that momentum and post earnings announcement drifts manifest mispric-
ing caused by behavioral-biased investors and institutional investors are the smart money, our
findings are also consistent with the idea that institutional investors’ investment constraints
limit their ability to arbitrage stock mispricing.3 Our main argument is that when institutional
investors already significantly overweight or underweight a stock, their investment constraints
prevent them from fully utilizing their information advantage. Such information advantage could
be about firm fundamentals, or stock valuations.

       Several recent studies rely on details of mutual fund holdings to predict stock return and
interpret the findings as evidence of mutual fund managers’ information advantage (e.g., Cohen,
Polk, and Silli (2010), Wermers, Yao, and Zhao (2012), Jiang, Verbeek, and Wang (2014)).
These studies show that certain variables constructed from mutual fund holdings can predict
stock return in unconditional tests, while our hypotheses are conditional on information prox-
ies. Our paper complements and extends these studies. Our results are consistent with their
conclusion that money managers can possess private information. We take it one step further
by showing how money managers’ investment constraints can limit their ability to trade on
their information and studying the associated pricing implications. Our paper uncovers inter-
esting new findings. For example, these studies could not explain our finding that momentum
and post earnings announcement drift are stronger for stocks experiencing greater institutional
investment constraints.

       Our paper also sheds new lights on whether institutions’ trading predict stock returns. At
quarterly frequency, we show that in general, stocks recently bought by the institutions do
not subsequently outperform stocks sold by the institutions. However, stocks that institutions
recently bought and reached an overweight position do significantly outperform in the future
   3
    Lewellen (2011) provides evidence that institutions’ investment decisions are constrained by limits of arbi-
trage considerations.


                                                       5
stocks that institutions recently sold and reached an underweight position. Our results help
reconcile the general belief that institutions are more informed and the lack of return predictive
power of institutional trades on average.

     Our results are related to, but are different from, the implications of short sales constraints.
Unlike short sales constraints, we study institutional investors’ buying constraints as well as
selling constraints. We provide the first empirical test on the asset pricing implications of buy-
side constraints. In addition, the selling constraints motivated by diversification and tracking
error concerns could be binding even when investors own shares in the stock. In contrast,
investors’ short sales constraints apply only to stocks they do not own.



II.      Data and Methodology

A.      Data

     This study uses common stocks listed on the NYSE, AMEX or NASDAQ that appear in
CRSP and Compustat. We exclude stocks that do not have a CRSP share code of 10 and
11, such as REITs, closed-end funds, and ADRs. We also exclude stocks priced below $5 and
stocks in the lowest market capitalization decile based on NYSE breakpoints as of the end of
the previous calendar year. We obtain firm financial information from Compustat. Because of
the availability of institutional equity holding data, our sample period is from the first quarter
of 1980 through the fourth quarter of 2013.

     Institutional equity holding and trading data are obtained from CDA Spectrum 13F Filings,
currently distributed by Thomson Reuters. Under the 1978 amendment to the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, all institutional investors managing a portfolio with an investment value
of $100 million or more are required to file quarterly 13F reports to the SEC, listing their equity
positions greater than 10,000 shares or $200,000 in market value as of the last date of each
quarter. The reporting requirements encompass various types of institutional managers such
as banks, investment companies, pension funds, insurance companies, and brokerage houses.

                                                  6
Throughout the paper, the terms “institutional investors” and “institutions” are used synony-
mously to refer to 13F institutions or managers.

     We use institutional equity holdings data to construct measures of institutional investment
constraints. Before we do that, we check the data for inconsistent records using reported holding
and trading, and correct those inconsistencies. For example, stock splits can cause inaccuracies
in the data in two ways. One, institutions may fail to report split-adjusted holding and trading
records correctly. Two, for the late filings, Spectrum adjusted the holding record that should not
be adjusted for the record date. In both cases, we use CRSP reported stock splits to check and
adjust the holding data. For the cases where the aggregate institutional ownership of a stock
is above 100 percent, we check the records of all institutions who own the stock for potential
errors. For those questionable records we could not correct, we use the most recent quarter’s
holding for which no errors are found.



B.     Identifying Constrained Stocks

     Our basic hypothesis is that institutional investment constraints distort institutions’ demand
for stocks and delay the incorporation of their information into stock prices. In order to iden-
tify the impact of investment constraints, we use the stock holdings of institutions to measure
whether institutions overweight or underweight a stock in their portfolios. In the following,
we explain two methods we use to identify whether a stock is overweighted (underweighted)
by institutional investors. The overweight measures are related to the diversification require-
ment discussed earlier, and capture well both the explicit and implicit tracking-error constraints
relative to the benchmarks.

     Our first measure of investment constraint, called “overweight ratio”, is based on individual
institution’s equity holdings. At the end of each quarter and for each institution, we first classify
whether the institution overweights or underweights a stock in its portfolio. Then, for each stock,
the overweight ratio equals the number of institutions who overweight the stock divided by the
total number of institutions that hold the stock. By definition, most institutions holding a stock

                                                 7
with a high (low) overweight ratio overweight (underweight) it. Thus, a high (low) overweight
ratio indicates that institutional investors on average face buying (selling) constraints for the
stock.

   An empirical difficulty in determining whether an institution overweights a stock is that
its benchmark is unobservable to us. To overcome this difficulty, we take advantage of the
observed portfolio composition of institutional investors. The composition of an institution’s
portfolio contains information about its benchmark. Given the diversification requirement and
the tracking error concerns, an institution’s portfolio should be close to its benchmark. Thus,
it makes sense to compare weights of stocks in an institution’s portfolio to those in the value-
weighted portfolio of the same stocks. Suppose the institution’s portfolio consists of Ni shares
of stock i, i = 1, · · · , K. Stock i’s price per share is Pi and market capitalization is Mi . We
say that the institution overweights a stock i if its weight in the portfolio is higher than the
corresponding weight in the value-weighted portfolio consisting of the same K stocks:

                                       Pi Ni         Mi
                                     PK          > PK      .                                   (1)
                                      j=1 P j Nj    j=1 Mj


Intuitively, this means that for any two stocks A and B in the institution’s portfolio, the insti-
tution holds relatively too much of A (overweights stock A relative to stock B) if the ratio of
stock A’s weight to stock B’s weight in the portfolio is higher than the ratio of their market cap.

   One main advantage of our approach for measuring investment constraints is that, by focus-
ing on the holdings of the institutions, we can identify a substantial portion of the investment
universe of the institutions and consequently identify the investor base of a stock and the po-
tential constraints these investors face. Recent studies provide empirical support for identifying
the likely investment targets of the institutional investors based on their holdings. Studying
the investment decisions of mutual funds, Alexander, Cici, and Gibson (2007) and Coval and
Stafford (2007) both show that institutions are far more likely to continue to add to positions
in the existing stocks in their portfolio than initiating positions in new stocks. Based on such
evidence, Edmans, Goldstein, and Jiang (2012) and Khan, Kogan, and Serafeim (2012) measure

                                                8
investor demand pressure at the stock level based on mutual fund holdings. In both papers, the
authors hypothesize that if a mutual fund holds a stock, and if the mutual fund experiences large
inflow (outflow), then the stock in the mutual funds portfolio experiences positive (negative) de-
mand pressure. For our approach, we further classify, within an institution’s portfolio, whether
a stock is over- or under-weighted by the institution. An overweight ratio, defined as the number
of institutions that overweight the stock divided by the total number of institutions that own
the stock, captures the likelihood that the institutional investors of the stock face investment
constraints when deciding whether to change the weight of the stock in their portfolios.4

       Table 1 studies the cross-sectional determinants of the overweight ratio defined above. The
cross-sectional regressions are run for each quarter. The regressors include firm characteristics
that are related to institutional investors’ preference and are measured at the end of the previous
quarter.5 We find that firm characteristics such as size, book-to-market ratio, momentum and
S&P 500 index membership are significantly related to a stock’s overweight ratio. Specifically,
large stocks and stocks that belong to S&P 500 index tend to have low overweight ratio, while
value stocks and past winner stocks tend to have high overweight ratio. In unreported results,
we find that institutional ownership for large stocks and S&P 500 index member stocks is more
dispersed: a large number of institutions hold these stocks, but many of them only hold a
small amount of these stocks, resulting in low overweight ratio. In contrast, the institutional
ownership of a typical growth stock or past winner stock tends to be more concentrated: a
small number of institutions hold the stock and most of them overweight it. This translates into
higher overweight ratio for the growth stocks and past winner stocks.

       Since size, book-to-market ratio and momentum are significantly related to both overweight
ratio and stock expected returns, these variables may confound the inference in our tests of
the asset pricing impact of institutional investment constraints. Therefore, we control for the

   4
     In unreported work, we include institutions that used to own the stock during the last year as well as those
that currently own it in the denominator of overweight ratio. Results are similar to those reported later in the
paper.
   5
     See, e.g., Badrinath, Gay, and Kale (1989), Lakonishok, Shleifer, and Vishny (1992), Del Guercio (1996),
Falkenstein (1996), Gompers and Metrick (2001), and Bennett, Sias, and Starks (2003).


                                                       9
influence of size, book-to-market and momentum on the overweight ratio. Throughout the rest
of the paper, overweight ratio refers to the residual of the overweight-ratio regression as in Model
3 of Table 1. Our results do not change if we use, as the constraint measure, the raw overweight
ratio ranked conditional on stock size alone, or the residuals obtained from other models in
Table 1, or the residuals from regressing the raw overweight ratio on size, book-to-market ratio,
momentum, S&P 500 membership dummy, trading volume, growth option, firm age, volatility,
analyst coverage, and analyst dispersion. Note in all these variations, the overweight-ratio
measure is by construction uncorrelated with size. Thus, there is no size-bias in the overweight
classification. This point will be empirically verified in Table 3.

       Our second measure for whether institutional investors overweight a stock starts with level
of aggregate institutional ownership (IO) of the stock, defined as the number of shares held by
all institutions divided by the total coomon shares outstanding. If the aggregate institutional
portfolio replicates the value-weighted market portfolio, then IO of all stocks should be the same.
Relative to the value-weighted market index, institutional investors as a group overweight high
IO stocks and underweight low IO stocks. However, it is not appropriate to make cross-sectional
comparisons on investment constraints directly based on the raw institutional ownership, because
institutional investors display distinct preferences for various stock characteristics.

       Our second constraint measure is the abnormal institutional ownership for each stock after
adjusting for institutional equity preference. At the end of each quarter, we run a cross-sectional
regression for institutional ownership on size, book-to-market ratio, momentum, and a S&P 500
membership dummy.6 The residual from the IO-regression, which we call residual institutional
ownership (residual-IO), measures the excess amount of institutional holding for a stock relative
to the average institutional ownership for stocks with similar characteristics. Institutions in
aggregate overweight stocks with high (positive) residual-IO and underweight stocks with low
(negative) residual-IO.

   6
    In each quarterly cross-sectional regressions, the regressors (e.g., firm size) are measured at the end of the
previous quarter. Using the residual of several alternative cross-sectional IO-regressions as our second constraint
measure provides similar results.


                                                        10
     Since the cross-sectional IO-regressions are run each quarter, our residual-IO measure takes
into account the trend of increasing average institutional ownership as well as the dynamic
institutional preference (e.g., Gompers and Metrick (2001), Bennett et al. (2003)). In addition,
the residual institutional ownership is by construction uncorrelated with variables like size and
book-to-market ratio. This makes it easier to interpret results of asset pricing tests. In contrast,
portfolios sorted directly on stocks’ raw institutional ownership level would overlap heavily
with a size-sort, because of the significant positive correlation between size and institutional
ownership.

     The overweight ratio and residual-IO are complementary measures of institutional investment
constraints. The overweight ratio focuses on whether each individual institution overweights a
stock in its portfolio and what fraction of institutions holding a stock overweight it. It captures
the idea that if a larger proportion of institutions are constrained from buying or selling a
stock, the pricing impact of such constraints should be greater. The residual-IO measures
complements the overweight ratio measure by taking into consideration of the magnitude of
overweight or underweight position at the aggregate level. Empirically, overweight ratio and
residual-IO are positively correlated. The time-series average of the cross-sectional correlation
between the two measures are 0.6. Because the two measures are derived differently and may
capture different aspects of investment constraints, we employ both measures of constrains in
our empirical analysis to ensure the robustness of our results.



C.     Information Proxies

     We propose that investment constraints may prevent institutional investors from fully uti-
lizing the information they possess or reacting properly to public news. Investment constraints
are more likely to be binding and affect stock prices for stocks that experience significant news.
The impact of investment constraints depends on the combination of investment constraints
– whether institutions overweight the stocks (buying constraints) or underweight the stocks
(selling constraints), and whether the news are positive or negative.

                                                11
       To identify stocks that are experiencing significant news, and in particular news that have
clearly defined signs, we first use recent stock return as a proxy for news. This approach is
consistent with both theoretic models (e.g., Barberis, Shleifer, and Vishny (1998), Hong and
Stein (1999)) and many previous empirical studies. At the end of each quarter, we sort stocks
into quintiles based on their returns over the last six months. Stocks that fall into the top winner
quintile generally have significant good news, while stocks that fall into the bottom loser quintile
generally have significant bad news. With this news proxy, institutional investment constraints
have an interesting implication for the profitability of momentum strategy: momentum profits
should be stronger among winners that institutions overweight and among losers that institutions
underweight. The idea is that prices of winner stocks that institutions already overweight
only partially reflect the positive information that institutions have, because their investment
constraints limit their demand, which causes stock price underreaction and leads to subsequent
high stock return.

       We also examine the impact of institutional investment constraints around a concrete and
significant news event, the firm’s earning announcement. Baker, Litov, Wachter, and Wurgler
(2010) present evidence that institutional investors are better informed about future earnings.
Because binding investment constraints could prevent institutional investors from fully exploiting
their information, investment constraints can lead to underreaction to their private signals about
earnings. Furthermore, even when institutional investors do not possess earning information
ahead of the time, investment constraints could still affect price response to public announcement
of the earnings. For example, upon the release of surprisingly high earnings, the share price
jumps to the point where the stock’s weights in the portfolios of those institutions who over-
weight the stock become excessively high, so that instead of holding or buying more of the
stock, they have to sell some shares to satisfy the diversification requirements or tracking error
constraints.7 In this case, price reaction to significant earnings news exacerbates investment
   7
    We thank the referee for pointing out this important channel through which investment constraints affect
the institutional investment decisions. Consistent with this idea, our empirical analysis on institutional trading
activities around earnings announcements confirms that constrained institutions in aggregate indeed trade in the
opposite direction of earnings surprise after earnings announcements.


                                                       12
constraints and leads to trading by constrained institutions in the opposite direction of earnings
news. Such trading behavior prevents institutional investors from exploiting the anomalous
post-earnings announcement drift, and in fact could directly contribute to the drift.

      For the empirical analysis, our proxy for news is firm’s earnings surprise, measured as the
un-split-adjusted IBES earnings per share minus the most recent median analyst forecast pre-
ceding the announcement date, standardized by the book value of equity per share.8 Based
on our hypotheses, institutional investment constraints affect the price drift after earnings an-
nouncements: the post-earnings-announcement drift should be stronger for stocks with positive
earnings surprise that institutions already overweight, and for stocks with negative earnings
surprise that institutions already underweight.



III.        Investment Constraints and Demand for Stocks

      This section examines the impact of investment constraints on institutions’ stock demand.
Our hypothesis is that institutions are less likely to buy more of the stocks that they already
overweight or sell stocks that they already underweight. We use both overweight ratio and
residual-IO to study the relation between investment constraints and the trading activity of
institutional investors. Such an analysis not only serves as a direct test for our hypothesis
above, but also provides assessment on the effectiveness of our constraint measures.

      Table 2 presents the test results. For each quarter, we first sort stocks into three investment-
constraint portfolios based on either overweight ratio (Panel A) or residual-IO (Panel B). Then
we calculate the change in the level of institutional ownership, change in the overweight ratio
and change in the residual-IO for stocks in each of the three portfolios over the six months
after as well as the six months prior to the portfolio formation. Panel A reports the time-series
average of the changes for portfolios sorted on overweight ratio. Panel B does the same with
residual-IO as the sorting variable.
  8
    Alternatively, we measure SU E as the most recent standardized unexpected earnings based on a rolling
seasonal random walk model. The results are similar.


                                                   13
   Institutional trading activities documented in Table 2 are consistent with our hypothesis that
institutions face buying (selling) constraints on their high overweight (underweight) positions.
In Panel A, we find that over the next six months, institutions buy more of the stocks that they
currently underweight, resulting in a 1.48% increase in these stocks’ institutional ownership.
On the other hand, the institutional ownership of stocks currently overweighted stocks by the
institutions is reduced on average by 0.01% over the next six months. Further, we find that
stock’s (residual) overweight ratio tends to mean-revert toward zero. For example, for stocks
currently overweighted by institutions, change in overweight ratio is positive over the more
recent six months but negative over the next six months; for stocks currently underweighted by
institutions, change in overweight ratio is negative over the more recent six months but positive
over the next six months. These results support the hypothesis that institutions could not or
would not keep deviating significantly from their benchmark.

   In Table 2 Panel A, patterns in the changes of overweight ratio and residual-IO are the same.
Further, institutions’ trading behavior for portfolios sorted on residual-IO (Table 2 Panel B) are
similar to those sorted on the overweight ratio (Table 2 Panel A). These results indicate that
both overweight ratio and residual-IO provide similar information as measures of institutional
investment constraints.




IV.      Investment Constraints and Stock Returns

   Section III. presents evidence that investment constraints affect institutions’ demand for
stocks. This section tests the asset pricing implications of institutional investment constraints.
We hypothesize that institutional investment constraints may lead to stock price underreaction
to news and stock return predictability. Stocks with good news that are currently overweighted
by institutions are undervalued because institutions’ buying constraints prevent the good news
from getting fully refelcted in the stock prices. Stocks with bad news that are currently un-
derweighted by institutions are overvalued because of institutions’ selling constraints. Among

                                               14
stocks that are experiencing good news, those currently overweighted by institutions experi-
ence more institutional buying constraints and tend to subsequently outperform those currently
underweighted by institutions. Similarly, among stocks that are experiencing bad news, those
currently underweighted by institutions experience more institutional selling constraints and
tend to subsequently underperform those currently overweighted by institutions.

       To test our hypotheses, we form stock portfolios based on measures of investment constraints
and proxies of news. Then we compare the average returns of different double-sorted portfo-
lios over several future horizons. We examine whether return patterns of these double-sorted
portfolios are consistent with the hypothesized pricing impact of investment constraints. This
is our main approach. Later, we complement this portfolio approach using the Fama-MacBeth
cross-sectional regressions on individual stock returns.



A.        Overweight Ratio and Future Stock Returns

       We first present test results using overweight ratio as the measure of institutional investment
constraints and recent six-month stock return as the proxy for news. Our hypotheses lead to the
following predictions: (1), among the past winner stocks, those that have high overweight ratio
(buy-constrained stocks) will subsequently outperform stocks with low overweight ratio; among
the past loser stocks, those that currently have low overweight ratio (sell-constrained stocks)
will subsequently underperform stocks with high overweight ratio; (2), differences in overweight
ratio are not significantly related to future returns for stocks that are neither recent past winners
nor losers (stocks without significant news).

       At the end of each quarter, we sort all stocks into five quintiles according to their returns
over the past six months.9 We independently sort stocks into three portfolios of high, medium,
and low overweight ratio. Fifteen double-sorted portfolios are obtained by intersecting these
two independent sorts. We use fifteen double-sorted portfolios to balance two objectives: (1), to
   9
    We refer to stocks in the top (bottom) quintile sorted based on past six-month returns as the winner (loser)
stocks. The results are robust to skipping a month between portfolio formation and subsequent performance
evaluation.


                                                      15
create enough dispersion in whether stocks are overweighted or underweighted by institutions
and whether they are experiencing good news, bad news or no significant news; (2), to make
sure that each of the double sorted portfolio contains enough stocks and is reasonably diversified
in order to reduce the standard errors in our test statistics.

   Table 3 presents summary characteristics for the momentum and overweight ratio double-
sorted portfolios. The two independent sorts produce fairly balanced portfolios. For example,
each portfolio consists of about 135 stocks; the average size decile ranking is approximately
equal across the double-sorted portfolios. In particular, there is no significant difference in size
between high overweight ratio stocks and low overweight ratio stocks. There is no obvious
size bias in the overweight classification. This is expected since our overweight ratio (as well
as residual-IO) already controls for the influence of momentum and other stock characteristics
such as size. Stocks in the same overweight ratio tercile have approximately the same level of
average institutional ownership and average residual-IO. Stocks with high overweight ratio also
tend to have high level of institutional ownership and residual-IO.

   Table 4 Panel A reports the average monthly returns for equal-weighted portfolios double
sorted on price momentum and overweight ratio, over the K (K = 3, 6) months after portfolio
formation. Note that our portfolios are formed every three months because the institutional
equity holding data (and hence our constraint measures) are available quarterly. For holding
period K > 3 months, at the end of each quarter and for each double-sorted portfolio, there
are other portfolios formed at previous quarters that are still “alive”. Following Jegadeesh and
Titman (1993), we first average the monthly returns of these various aged portfolios in one
month, and then take the time-series average over the sample period to arrive at the average
monthly portfolio returns reported in Table 4 Panel A. In addition to the raw returns, Table 4
Panel A also reports characteristics-adjusted mean portfolio returns where we first subtract from
the raw return of each stock the return of the corresponding size and book-to-market matched
portfolio, and then take average. Results for holding periods K = 12, 24 months are reported in
the Online Appendix and are qualitatively similar, although the magnitudes of the differences

                                                16
in the average return of high versus low overweight ratio stocks decrease as the holding period
lengthens. In the following discussions, we focus on the case of K = 6.

   Table 4 Panel A shows that among past winner and past loser stocks, those with high over-
weight ratio tend to have higher subsequent returns. For example, the difference between the
average monthly return of high overweight ratio winners and low overweight ratio winners is
0.29% and is highly statistically significant. Similarly, high overweight ratio losers on average
outperform low overweight ratio losers by about 0.30% per month during the six months after
portfolio formation. After controlling for size and book-to-market characteristics portfolio re-
turn, high overweight ratio stocks still significantly outperform low overweight ratio stocks by
about 0.24% per month among both past winner and past loser stocks. Further, this predictive
power of overweight ratio for future stock return is U-shaped. The differences in the returns
between stocks with high and low overweight ratio are not significant among stocks that are
neither recent winners or losers. This holds for both the raw returns comparisons or size and
book-to-market adjusted returns comparisons.

   The above results are consistent with the predictions motivated by the pricing impact of
institutional investment constraints. They support the idea that institutional investment con-
straints cause price underreaction to news for stocks affected by the constraints. Note that the
forecast power of overweight ratio for stock returns does not come from the momentum effect
as we report return differences between stocks within each portfolio sorted by past returns (i.e.,
we control for the momentum effect).

   Table 4 Panel A further shows an interesting interaction between the effects of investment
constraints and momentum: the profitability of momentum strategy increases monotonically
with the degree of investment constraints. Momentum strategy is most profitable among stocks
facing high (or binding) investment constraints (i.e., past winner stocks overweighted by insti-
tutions and past loser stocks underweighted by institutions). For example, between 1980 and
2013, and for a holding period of K = 6 months, the momentum strategy applied to these highly
constrained stocks generates a significant average return of 0.91% per month. In contrast, when

                                               17
momentum strategy is applied to unconstrained stocks (i.e., buy the low overweight ratio past
winners and sell the high overweight ratio past losers), it generates an average monthly return
of only 0.32%. This momentum profit is about 0.59% lower than the momentum profits for the
constrained stocks. Momentum strategy profit is 0.61% per month among the medium over-
weight ratio stocks.10 Controlling for size and book-to-market characteristics does not change
patterns of momentum profits across the constraint portfolios.



B.       Alternative Measures

       In Section A., we use overweight ratio as the measure of institutional investment constraints
and recent six-month stock return to proxy for news that institutional investors have. This
subsection reports additional test results where we use residual institutional ownership as the
constraint measure and quarterly earnings surprises as proxy for news. In addition to providing
robustness checks on the results reported in Section A., the analysis offers further insights on
the asset pricing implications of institutional investment constraints.

       In Table 4 Panel B, we double sort stocks into fifteen portfolios based on residual-IO and
past 6-months stock returns. The results are similar across various holding periods. The return
patterns are identical to those in Table 4 Panel A. For example, high residual-IO stocks signif-
icantly outperform low residual-IO stocks in the next six months, by about 0.45% per month
among the past winner stocks, and by about 0.39% per month among the past loser stocks.
The predictive power of residual institutional ownership for stock return is also U-shaped. The
differences in the average monthly returns between the high residual-IO and the low residual-IO
stocks when their past six-month returns rank in the second to fourth quintiles (i.e., neither
winners nor losers) are all smaller than 0.1% and statistically insignificant. Further, buying
high residual-IO winners (for which institutions face high buying constraints) and selling low
  10
     The magnitudes of momentum profits in our paper are lower than those reported in Jegadeesh and Titman
(1993) because (1) the difference in the sample periods (momentum strategy has performed poorly during the
last decade in our sample, see, e.g., Daniel and Moskowitz (2013)), and (2) we use 5 return quintiles, which
leads to a smaller difference between the past returns of winners and losers and thus a smaller momentum profit
compared to the strategy that sort stocks into 10 deciles based on past returns.


                                                      18
residual-IO losers (for which institutions face high selling constraints) earns a statistically sig-
nificant 1.02% return per month over the next six months. In contrast, buying low residual-IO
winners and selling high residual-IO losers only returns about 0.19% per month which is not
significantly different from zero. Hence, results here confirm that momentum profits are higher
among stocks experiencing more institutional investment constraints.

       Next, we study the asset pricing implications of institutional investment constraints using
corporate earnings announcement as the information event. At the end of each quarter, we
sort stocks into three portfolios based on either their overweight ratio or residual institutional
ownership. Then, we independently sort stocks into five portfolios based on their measured
earnings surprises from earnings announcements in the next quarter. Finally, we intersect the
two sorts to obtain fifteen double-sorted portfolios. Following existing studies, we use holding
period returns over a sixty-trading-days window after earnings announcements and compute
the price drift by adjusting for size decile benchmark portfolio returns over the same period.11
The time-series average of the post earning announcement price drift for different portfolios are
reported in Table 5.

       Consistent with post-earnings-announcement-drift documented in many previous studies,
Table 5 shows that stocks with positive (negative) earnings surprises on the announcement date
subsequently have positive (negative) returns. More interestingly, we find that stocks with ex-
treme positive earnings surprises have the largest (most positive) post earnings announcement
drift when they are already overweighted by the institutions. Controlling for positive earnings
surprises, stocks that institutions overweight on average outperform stocks that they under-
weight by a significant 0.94% over the 60 trading days following the earnings announcement
(Table 5 Panel A). Among the stocks having extreme negative earnings surprises, those that
institutions already underweight have lower future returns (i.e., more negative drift) than those
that institutions overweight. The difference is -0.86% and statistically significant (Table 5 Panel

  11
    We define the earnings announcement date as date 0, and calculate the sixty trading day return from day
2 to day 61. We obtain similar results when using 5x5 size and book-to-market characteristics adjusted stock
returns.


                                                    19
A). Results are similar when we use residual-IO as the measure of institutional investment con-
straints (Table 5 Panel B). Finally, consistent with our prediction and the results in Table 4,
the predictive power of constraint measures for post earnings announcement drift is U-shaped.

      Results above collaborate those in section A. and provide further support for the hypoth-
esized impact of institutional investment constraints on stock prices. Our results also suggest
that institutional investment constraints play an important role in explaining the post-earnings
announcement drift. This is consistent with Hirshleifer, Myers, Myers, and Teoh (2008) who
conclude that individual investors do not drive post-earnings announcement drift. Recent re-
search on post earnings announcement drift has generally pointed to investors’ underreaction
induced by investor behavioral bias as the cause of such price drift. Our results show that
investment constraints inherent in investor portfolio decisions could also lead to underreaction
to earnings news and the subsequent price drift.

      One distinctive feature of our investment constraint measures is that they are constructed
to capture both buying and selling constraints. Compared with studies that solely focus on
short-sale constraints, our approach allows us to consider constraints on both buying and selling
decisions and to consider selling constraints that could become binding before holdings reach
zero. Given that most of the institutional investors are long-only investors, our results should
be stronger when there are negative news and institutions underweight the stocks than when
they overweight stocks that have positive news.12 The results in Table 4 and 5 support the idea
that our measures capture better the binding constraints for stocks with news. For example,
Table 4 Panel B (holding period K=3 months) shows that for stocks experiencing negative
news, those that are most underweighted by institutions have an average monthly return of
0.626%, which is significantly lower than the 0.957% monthly average returns for stocks that are
not suffering from institutional investment constraints. By comparison, the stocks experiencing
positive news that are overweighted by institutions have an average monthly return of 1.639%,
which is not significantly different from the 1.591% average monthly return for stocks not facing

 12
      We thank the referee for highlighting this implication.


                                                         20
significant institutional investment constraints. In unreported table (available upon request), we
find that the same comparisons hold for Fama-French 3-factor model alphas as well as for the size
and book-to-market characteristics-adjusted returns. In addition, the magnitudes of the Fama-
French 3-factor alphas or characteristics-adjusted returns for the constrained stocks experiencing
negative news are about twice the size of those for the constrained stocks experiencing positive
news. These results confirm the asymmetric effects of institutional investment constraints.



C.     Further Robustness Checks and Alternative Explanations

     In this subsection, we first verify the robustness of our main results to variations in the
sorting procedures as well as using Fama-MacBeth regressions. We also examine how the effects
of the investment constraints vary across different types of institutions. We further evaluate a
potential alternative explanation of our results based on informed institutions.

     All of the results reported above are robust to variations in the double-sort procedure, such
as sorting on past three months or one year return instead of six months return, or using ten
past return-sorted portfolios and five constraint-sorted portfolios. Similar results are obtained
when we form portfolios each month instead of each quarter using the most recent institutional
ownership. Further, our results remain qualitatively the same when we use the previous quarter’s
institution holdings data when measuring institutions’ investment constraints.

     When we repeat our analysis separately for the large stocks and for the small stocks, our
results hold in both subsamples. In addition, our results hold up in two subperiods (from
January 1980 to December 1995, and from January 1996 to December 2013). Our portfolio-
sorting results also hold for the Fama-French three-factor alpha, beyond the raw returns and
characteristics-adjusted returns reported previously.

     We run Fama-MacBeth type cross-sectional regressions to further check the robustness of the
predictive power of our institutional investment constraint measures for stock returns obtained
using the portfolio approach. The cross-sectional regressions are run each quarter. In quarter t’s
regression, the dependent variable is the average monthly return for individual stocks over that

                                                21
quarter. The key regressor is overweight ratio (or residual-IO) at the end of quarter t − 1. The
control variables include size (log market cap measured at the end of quarter t − 1), momentum
(past six-month stock return), book-to-market equity ratio and return on equity (both measured
as of the end of the previous year), average monthly turnover ratio over the last two quarters,
volatility of stock return, and institutional trading (change in institutional ownership) over the
last two quarters. The stock characteristics we include are standard in cross-sectional return
regressions.

   Table 6 reports the time-series mean of the coefficient estimates (and their t-statistics) for
the cross-sectional regressions. Model (1) of Panel A shows that overweight ratio positively
predicts future stock returns above and beyond all the control variables above. The same result
holds in Model (1) of Panel B using residual institutional ownership as the constraint measure.
In particular, the relation between our institutional investment constraint measures and future
stock returns is not driven by institutional trading. In fact, at quarterly frequency, institutional
trading does not significantly predict subsequent stock returns in our sample.

   One of our findings that shows up consistently in Table 4 and 5 is that the U-shaped fore-
casting power of our constraint measure for stock returns: it is only significant for stocks that
are experiencing significant news. To check this result using the Fama-MacBeth regressions, we
introduce two additional regressors in Model (2) of Table 6 Panel A, which are the interactions
of overweight ratio with a dummy for the past six-month winners and with a dummy for the
past six-month losers. Consistent with previous results based on the portfolio approach, these
two interaction variables are both significantly positively related to future stock returns in the
Fama-MacBeth regressions as well. After controlling for these interaction terms, the overweight
ratio variable itself is no longer statistically significant. The same results obtain in Table 6
Panel B with residual-IO as the constraint measure. Thus, the U-shaped pattern in the pre-
dictive power of our constraint measures for stock returns is confirmed in the cross-sectional
regressions.

   The magnitudes of the return spreads generated by the constraint measures as implied by the

                                                22
Fama-MacBeth regressions are close to those based on the portfolio approach reported earlier.
For example, the estimated coefficient for the interaction of overweight ratio with the losers
dummy is 1.079. Given the 0.25 average difference in the overweight ratio of between the high
and low tercile (see Table 3), this coefficient translates into an expected return difference between
the high overweight ratio losers and the low overweight ratio losers of 0.27% per month over
the next quarter. For comparison, the return difference (adjusted for size and book-to-market)
between the high and low overweight ratio losers (for holding period K = 3 in Table 4) based
on the portfolio sorting approach is 0.39%.

   We next examine how the varying investment constraints faced by different types of institu-
tions affect the strength of our results. We follow Bushee and Noe (2000) to classify institutional
investors in the 13F database into three different groups: dedicated, quasi-indexers, and tran-
sient institutions. “Dedicated institutions are those institutions who hold a small number of
stocks but over a long time period and they only represent a very small portion (5%) of the
institutions in the sample. “Quasi-indexers include 70% of the 13F institutions, and these
institutions follow but also deviate to certain extant from their benchmarks. The “transient
institutions (among 25% of the 13F institutions) are those institutions that trade actively in the
stocks and do not have clearly specified benchmarks.

   In Table 7, we report the results separately for the two types of institutions, “quasi-indexers
and “transient institutions. Based on our hypothesis, the types of institutional investors who
are mostly likely to be constrained are the “quasi-indexers, institutions that cannot deviate
substantially from their benchmarks even when they possess valuable information. The results
in Table 7 confirm this prediction. Using overweight ratio as the constraint measure, we find that
the investment constraints faced by the quasi-indexers have a much stronger effects on future
stock returns, with a clear U-shape across portfolios sorted by recent stock returns (proxy for
news). In comparison, results for the transient institutions are much weaker and sometimes
insignificant. In an unreported table, we verify the results remain the same when we use the
residual institutional ownership as the constraint measure.

                                                 23
      Lastly, we evaluate an alternative explanation of our results that is based on informed insti-
tutions. One potential explanation for our finding is that overweight ratio and residual-IO may
simply reflect institutions’ information which enable them to shift their portfolios in advance
of abnormally high or low returns. Under this explanation, stocks that institutions currently
overweight (underweight) are just those that they recently bought (sold) based on positive
(negative) private information. When the information becomes public later, stocks they have
bought (and now overweight) would have high future returns, and stocks they have sold (and
now underweight) would have low future return.

      We conduct formal tests of the informed trading hypothesis to differentiate the informed
institution story and the investment constraint hypothesis. The tests provide further insights
on the underlying causes of the return predictability of our constraint measures. In Table 8
Panel A, we report post-formation returns for portfolios double sorted on price momentum and
net institutional trading (change in institutional ownership) over the past six-months. The table
format is the same as Table 4, except we now sort on institutional trading rather than stocks’
overweight ratio. Different from the predictive power of our constraint measures, we do not
find any evidence that recent institutional trading positively predict stock returns over the next
three or six months.13 This finding is also consistent with the cross-sectional regression results
in Table 6, which shows insignificant coefficient estimates for the institutional trading variable.

      Table 8 Panel B helps us better understand how institutional trading and investment con-
straints interact to affect stock prices and return. For this table, we double sort stocks into 9
portfolios based on change in institutional ownership over the past six-months and current over-
weight ratio, and then report the post-formation average monthly portfolio returns for holding
period of 3 and 6 months. We find that after controlling for changes in institutional ownership,
high overweight ratio stocks still significantly outperform low overweight ratio stocks.

      Interestingly, we find that whether institutions’ trades predict future stock returns depend
on whether they experience investment constraints on these stocks. Stocks that institutions re-
 13
    Gompers and Metrick (2001) and Cai and Zheng (2004), employing the same data we use, also find no
evidence that institutional trading predict future returns at quarterly frequency.


                                                  24
cently bought but still underweight do not have high future returns, and stocks that institutions
recently sold yet still overweight do not have low future returns. On the other hand, stocks that
institutions recently bought and now overweight significantly outperform stocks that institutions
recently sold and currently underweight. The difference is approximately 0.28% per month and
economically significant. As institutions trade and reach binding investment constraints, they
could not fully take advantage of their information. Their information only get reflected in stock
price with a delay. This delay gives rise to return predictability and profitable opportunity to
follow the trades of informed (but constrained) institutions, even with a lag such as one quarter.




V.      Conclusions

   Institutional investors face constraints due to their restrictive investment policies which are
not binding on individuals. These additional restrictions are a mitigation of the legal liability
imposed on institutional fiduciaries by laws and regulations such as ERISA and the Prudent
Investor Rule.

   This study examines the impact of institutional investment constraints on the aggregate
demand for stocks and the cross section of stock returns. Using institutional equity holding
data between 1980 and 2013, we find that institutional investors are less likely to buy more of
the stocks that they already overweight, even when there are good news about the stocks. They
are also reluctant to sell the stocks that they already underweight, even when they have bad
news about the stocks. This behavior is consistent with institutional investment constraints
such as diversification requirements and tracking-error restrictions.

   We test hypotheses about the impact of institutional investment constraints on stock prices:
stocks which institutions overweight may underreact to good news and become undervalued;
stocks which institutions underweight may underreact to bad news and become overvalued.
Consistent with the hypotheses, we find that among stocks that are having good news, those that
institutions overweight significantly outperform in the future those that institutions underweight.

                                                25
Similarly, for stocks that are having bad news, those that institutions underweight subsequently
underperform those that institutions overweight. Further, we find that the momentum strategy
and post earnings announcement drift are both stronger among stocks that experience high
institutional investment constraints.
   Our results support the argument of Allen (2001) that financial institutions matter for asset
pricing. They indicate that asset pricing anomalies may be importantly related to institutional
investment constraints. In a similar vein, Alankar, Blaustein, and Scholes (2014) demonstrate
that investment managers may not eliminate the observed asset-pricing anomalies because they
may contribute to their existence. DeVault, Sias and Starks (2014) argue that institutional
investors are the sentiment traders whose demand shocks drive prices from fundamental value.
Edelen, Ince, and Kadlec (2014) document that that institutions are on the wrong side of
anomalies more often than not. Goldman and Slezak (2003) show that delegated portfolio
management may distort managers incentive to trade on long-term information and cause stock
mispricing. It seems a fruitful venue for future research to explore further how issues arising from
delegated portfolio management affect money managers’ portfolio decisions and stock prices in
equilibrium, following the lead of Roll (1992), Carpenter (2000), Cornell and Roll (2005), Cuoco
and Kaniel (2011) and others.




                                                26
References
 [1] Alexander, G.; G. Cici; and S. Gibson. “Does Trade Motivation Matter? An Analysis of
     Mutual Fund Trades.” Review of Financial Studies 20 (2007), 125-150.

 [2] Allen, F. “Do Financial Institutions Matter?” Journal of Finance 56 (2001), 1165-1175.

 [3] Almazan, A.; K. C. Brown; M. Carlson; and D. A. Chapman. “Why Constrain Your Mutual
     Fund Manager?” Journal of Financial Economics 73 (2004), 289-321.

 [4] Arnott, R., “What Risk Matters? A Call for Papers!” Financial Analysts Journal 59 (2003),
     6-8.

 [5] Alankar, A.; P. Blaustein; and M. Scholes. “The Cost of Constraints: Risk Management,
     Agency Theory and Asset Prices”, Working Paper (2014), Stanford University.

 [6] Badrinath, S. G.; G. D. Gay; and J. R. Kale., “Patterns of Institutional Investment, Pru-
     dence, and the Managerial “Safety-Net” Hypothesis.” Journal of Risk and Insurance 56
     (1989), 605-629.

 [7] Baker, M.; L. Litov; J. Wachter; and J. Wurgler. “Can Mutual Fund Managers Pick Stocks?
     Evidence from the Trades Prior to Earnings Announcements.” Journal of Financial and
     Quantitative Analysis 45 (2010), 1111-1131.

 [8] Barberis, N.; A. Shleifer; and R. Vishny. “A Model of Investor Sentiment.” Journal of
     Financial Economics 49 (1998), 307-343.

 [9] Bennett, J.; R. Sias; and L. Starks. “Greener Pastures and the Impact of Dynamic Institu-
     tional Preferences” Review of Financial Studies 16 (2003), 1203-1239.

[10] Bushee, B., and C. Noe. “Corporate Disclosure Practices, Institutional Investors, and Stock
     Return Volatility.” Journal of Accounting Research 38 (2000), 171-202.

[11] Cai, F., and L. Zheng. “Institutional Trading and Stock Returns.” Finance Research Letters
     1 (2004), 178-189.

[12] Carpenter, J. “The Optimal Dynamic Investment Policy for a Fund Manager Compensated
     with an Incentive Fee.” Journal of Finance 55 (2000), 2311-2331.

[13] Chan, L. K. C.; H. Chen; and J. Lakonishok. “On Mutual Fund Investment Styles.” Review
     of Financial Studies 15 (2002), 1407-1437.

[14] Chen, H.; N. Jegadeesh; and R. Wermers. “The Value of Active Mutual Fund Management:
     An Examination of the Stockholdings and Trades of Fund Managers.” Journal of Financial
     and Quantitative Analysis 35 (2000), 343-368.

[15] Cohen, R.; P. Gompers; and T. Vuolteenaho. “Who Underreact to Cash-Flow News? Evi-
     dence from Trading Between Individuals and Institutions.” Journal of Financial Economics
     66 (2002), 409-462.

                                              27
[16] Cohen, R. B.; C. K. Polk; and B. Silli. “Best Ideas.” Working Paper (2010), Harvard
     Business School.

[17] Cornell, B., and R. Roll. “A Delegated Agent Asset-Pricing Model.” Financial Analysts
     Journal 61 (2005), 57-69.

[18] Coval, J. D., and E. Stafford. “Asset Fire Sales (and Purchases) in Equity Markets.” Jour-
     nal of Financial Economics 86 (2007), 479-512.

[19] Cremers, M., and A. Petajisto. “How Active is Your Fund Manager? A New Measure That
     Predicts Performance.” Review of Financial Studies 22 (2009), 3329-3365.

[20] Cuoco, D., and R. Kaniel. “Equilibrium Prices in the Presence of Delegated Portfolio Man-
     agement.” Journal of Financial Economics 101 (2011), 264-296.

[21] Daniel, K., and T. Moskowitz. “Momentum Crashes.” Swiss Finance Institute Research
     Paper No. 13-61; Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 14-6; Fama-Miller Working
     Paper. (2013)

[22] Del Guercio, D. “The Distorting Effect of the Prudent-Man Laws on Institutional Equity
     Investments.” Journal of Financial Economics 40 (1996), 31-62.

[23] DeVault, L.; R. Sias; and L. Starks. “Who Are the Sentiment Traders? Evidence from the
     Cross-Section of Stock Returns and Demand.” Working Paper (2014), University of Arizona
     and University of Texas.

[24] Edelen, R. M.; O. S. Ince; and G. B. Kadlec. “Institutional Investors and Stock Return
     Anomalies.” Working Paper (2014), UC Davis and Virginia Tech.

[25] Edmans, A.; I. Goldstein; and W. Jiang. “The Real Effects of Financial Markets: The
     Impact of Prices on Takeovers.” Journal of Finance 67 (2012), 933-971.

[26] Falkenstein, E. “Preferences for Stock Characteristics as Revealed by Mutual Fund Portfolio
     Holdings.” Journal of Finance 51 (1996), 111-136.

[27] Goldman, E., and S. Slezak. “Delegated Portfolio Management and Rational Prolonged
     Mispricing.” Journal of Finance 58 (2003), 283-311.

[28] Gompers, P., and A. Metrick. “Institutional Investors and Equity Prices.” Quarterly Jour-
     nal of Economics 116 (2001), 229-260.

[29] Hirshleifer, D.; J. Myers; L. Myers; and S. H. Teoh. “Do Individual Investors Cause Post-
     Earnings Announcement Drift? Direct Evidence from Personal Trades.” The Accounting
     Review 83 (2008), 1521-1550.

[30] Hong, H., and J. C. Stein. “A Unified Theory of Underreaction, Momentum Trading and
     Overreaction in Asset Markets.” Journal of Finance 54 (1999), 2143-2184.

[31] Jegadeesh, N., and S. Titman. “Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers: Implications
     for Stock Market Efficiency.” Journal of Finance 48 (1993), 65-91.

                                              28
[32] Jiang, H.; M. Verbeek; and Y. Wang. “Information Content When Mutual Funds Deviate
     from Benchmarks.” Management Science 60 (2014), 2038-2053.

[33] Khan, M.; L. Kogan; and G. Serafeim. “Mutual Fund Trading Pressure: Firm-Level Stock
     Price Impact and Timing of SEOs.” Journal of Finance 67 (2012), 1371-1395.

[34] Lakonishok, J.; A. Shleifer; and R. Vishny. “The Impact of Institutional Trading on Stock
     Prices.” Journal of Financial Economics 32 (1992), 23-44.

[35] Lakonishok, J.; A. Shleifer; and R. Vishny. “What do Money Managers Do?” Working
     Paper (1997), Harvard Business School.

[36] Lewellen, J. “Institutional Investors and the Limits of Arbitrage.” Journal of Financial
     Economics 102 (2011), 62-80.

[37] Maug, E., and N. Naik. “Herding and delegated portfolio management: The Impact of
     Relative Performance Evaluation on Asset Allocation.” Quarterly Journal of Finance 1
     (2011), 265-292.

[38] O’Barr, W. M., and J. M. Conley. “Fortune and folly: The Wealth and Power of Institu-
     tional Investing.” Homewood: Business One Irwin (1992).

[39] Roll, R. “A Mean-Variance Analysis of Tracking Error.” Journal of Portfolio Management
     18 (1992), 13-22.

[40] Wermers, R. “Mutual Fund Trading and the Impact on Stock Prices.” Journal of Finance
     54 (1999), 581-622.

[41] Wermers, R.; T. Yao; and J. Zhao. “Forecasting Stock Returns through an Efficient Aggre-
     gation of Mutual Fund Holdings.” Review of Financial Studies 25 (2012), 3490-3529.




                                             29

                                                       TABLE 1
                                     Determinants of Overweight Ratio

Table 1 reports results of regressions that study the determinants of stock’s overweight ratio, defined as the

number of institutions that overweight a stock divided by the number of institutions that hold the stock. For each

quarter between 1980 and 2013, we run cross-sectional regressions of the overweight ratio of stocks on a set of

firm characteristics, including the natural logarithm of the market capitalization of the stock at the end of the

previous quarter (Size), a dummy that takes value 1 for stocks that belong to the S&P 500 index, book-to-market

equity ratio as of the end of the previous year (B/M), and the stock return over the previous 12 months (Mom).

We report the time-series averages of the estimated coefficients from the cross-sectional regressions and their t-

statistics. The sample includes domestic common stocks traded on NYSE, AMEX, and NASDAQ from 1980 to

2013, excluding REITs, closed-end funds, ADRs, as well as stocks that are priced below $5 or that rank in the

lowest market capitalization decile as of the end of the previous calendar year.


                                  (1)                          (2)                   (3)
          Parameter            Estimate      t-stat.         Estimate   t-stat.    Estimate   t-stat.

          Intercept             0.939        50.27            0.879     43.72       0.888     42.74
          Size                  -0.066       -22.58           -0.056    -18.02      -0.057    -18.24
          S&P                                                 -0.053    -28.27      -0.048    -25.49
          B/M                                                                       -0.004    -4.84
          Mom                                                                       0.027     16.25

          Adj-R2                0.348                         0.362                 0.370




                                                          
                                                         

                                                      TABLE 2
                            Investment Constraints and Institutional Trading

Table 2 reports institutional trading activity for stocks sorted on overweight ratio (OR) and residual institutional

ownership (ResIO). OR of a stock is defined as the percentage of overweighting institutions unexplained by the

cross-sectional regression reported in Model (3) of Table 1. ResIO for a stock is defined as the level of

aggregate institutional ownership unexplained by the cross-sectional IO-regression with the same regressors as

Model (3) of Table 1. At the end of each quarter, we sort the stocks into three groups (Low-inst, Med, High-

inst) based on their overweight ratio and residual-IO respectively. We then calculate the average change in

institutional ownership (IO), average change in OR, and average change of residual-IO during the two quarters

prior to, as well as the two quarters following the measurement of investment constraints. Panel A reports the

time-series mean of the changes for the three portfolios sorted based on the overweight ratio. Panel B reports

the same for the three portfolios sorted based on the residual-IO. The column “D(H,L)” reports the differences

of the three trading measures between the High OR (residual-IO) stocks and Low OR (residual-IO) stocks.


                                        Panel A. Sorted on Overweight Ratio
                                      Previous 6 months                            Subsequent 6 months
                           Change in      Change in    Change in            Change in    Change in     Change in
    Overweight Ratio
                              IO             OR         ResIO                  IO          OR           ResIO
    Low                      0.42           -2.54        -0.62                1.48         2.73          0.80
    Med                      1.35           -0.23        0.07                 0.80         0.11          0.11
    High                      2.01          2.60              0.74            -0.01         -3.01        -0.73
    D(H,L)                    1.60          5.14              1.36            -1.48         -5.75        -1.53
    t-stat.                   9.32          20.04             11.5            -15.97       -22.06       -15.77

                               Panel B. Sorted on Residual Institutional Ownership
                                      Previous 6 months                            Subsequent 6 months
                           Change in      Change in    Change in            Change in    Change in     Change in
    Residual IO
                               IO            OR         ResIO                  IO           OR          ResIO
    Low                      -0.25          -0.39        -1.30                2.01         0.39          1.42
    Med                       0.78          -0.06        -0.39                1.36         -0.05         0.69
    High                      3.25          0.27              1.87            -1.10         -0.51        -1.93
    D(H,L)                    3.50          0.66              3.17            -3.12         -0.89        -3.35
    t-stat.                   11.28         5.98          22.44               -24.07        -8.77       -25.80



                                                           
                                                          

                                                   TABLE 3
                        Characteristics of Momentum-Overweight Ratio Portfolios

Table 3 reports several characteristics of the portfolios double sorted by price momentum and overweight ratio.

At the end of each quarter between 1980 and 2013, we first sort stocks into five quintiles (P1-P5) based on

stock returns over the past six months. We then independently sort the stocks into three groups (Low-OR, Med,

High-OR) based on their current overweight ratio. P1 refers to the portfolio with the lowest return and P5 the

highest. The momentum- overweight ratio portfolios are obtained by intersecting the two independent sorts. For

each momentum- overweight ratio portfolio, the table reports its average monthly return (in percent) over the

past six months, average size ranking based on market capitalization decile sorted by NYSE breakpoints,

average number of stocks it contains, average level of overweight ratio, average level of institutional ownership

and average level of residual-IO.



                Low-                High-         Low-                   High-      Low-                  High-
                           Med                                 Med                             Med
                 OR                  OR            OR                     OR         OR                    OR
                Average Monthly Return                    Size Ranking                No. of Observations
    P1          -4.03      -3.83    -3.73         3.96         4.45      3.88      147.1      128.2       128.3
    P2          -0.41      -0.42    -0.41         4.90         5.48      4.70      135.1      135.9       133.2
    P3           1.31      1.31     1.34          5.24         5.82      5.02      134.8      136.6       132.8
    P4           3.18      3.15     3.19          5.41         5.90      5.08      127.2      138.4       138.6
    P5           8.00      7.27     7.07          5.11         5.46      4.74      128.8      134.6       140.5


                    Overweight Ratio               Institutional Ownership                  Residual IO
    P1          -0.135     0.016    0.114         0.358        0.543     0.607     -0.137     0.035       0.117
    P2          -0.129     0.016    0.113         0.370        0.554     0.620     -0.145     0.024       0.114
    P3          -0.126     0.016    0.113         0.372        0.558     0.625     -0.150     0.020       0.112
    P4          -0.122     0.016    0.112         0.382        0.562     0.632     -0.144     0.022       0.117
    P5          -0.130     0.016    0.113         0.379        0.562     0.630     -0.141     0.034       0.124




                                                         
                                                      

                                                     TABLE 4
         Monthly Returns for Portfolios Based on Price Momentum and Investment Constraints

Table 4 presents the average monthly returns (in percent) of portfolios double sorted by momentum and

investment constraints for the 1980 to 2013 period. In Panel A, investment constraints are measured by

overweight ratio. In Panel B, investment constraints are measured by residual-IO. At the end of each quarter, all

available stocks are sorted into five momentum quintiles (P1-P5) based on stock returns over the past six

months. P1 refers to the portfolio with the lowest return and P5 the highest. The stocks are then independently

sorted based on their investment constraints into three groups (Low, Med, High). The momentum-investment

constraints portfolios are obtained by intersecting these two sorts. We report average monthly equal-weighted

returns of the momentum-investment constraints portfolios over the subsequent 3 to 6 months (holding period

K=3, 6 months). In addition, we report: (1) difference in average monthly returns between the high investment

constraints portfolio and the low investment constraints portfolio for each momentum sort (column D(H–L));

(2) the momentum profits within each investment constraints portfolio (row D(5-1)); and (3) difference in

average monthly returns between the high investment constraints /P5 portfolio and the low investment

constraints/P1 portfolio, as well as between the low investment constraints/P5 portfolio and the high investment

constraints/P1 portfolio (row labeled by “P(H,L)”). We report results based on raw returns as well as results that

are adjusted for the 5 by 5 size and book-to-market characteristics portfolio returns.

                  Panel A. Independent Double Sort on Price Momentum and Overweight Ratio
                                      Raw return                                     Adjusted return
                                         K=3                                                K=3
    Momentum         Low      Med      High     D(H,L)         t-stat.   Low      Med      High     D(H,L)   t-stat.
    P1               0.616    0.947    1.065       0.450       3.71      -0.537   -0.236   -0.147   0.389    3.40
    P2               1.225    1.240    1.236       0.012       0.13      -0.043   -0.011   -0.031   0.012    0.14
    P3               1.273    1.364    1.342       0.068       0.72      -0.040   0.101    0.020    0.060    0.71
    P4               1.194    1.298    1.276       0.082       0.89      -0.079   0.033    -0.023   0.055    0.67
    P5               1.273    1.579    1.587       0.315       2.85      0.032    0.338    0.284    0.253    2.50
    D(5,1)           0.657    0.632    0.522                             0.568    0.574    0.431
    t-stat.          2.56     2.50      2.30                             2.51     2.54     2.00
    P(H,L)           0.208             0.972                             0.179             0.821
    t-stat.          0.84               3.87                             0.790             3.62


                                                            
                                                           


                                           K=6                                                K=6
    Momentum            Low     Med      High    D(H,L)          t-stat.   Low      Med      High     D(H,L)   t-stat.
    P1                 0.674    0.975    0.971       0.296       2.70      -0.478   -0.213   -0.239   0.239    2.36
    P2                 1.156    1.23     1.213       0.057       0.69      -0.111   -0.024   -0.060   0.051    0.68
    P3                 1.258    1.334    1.373       0.115       1.39      -0.035   0.061    0.070    0.105    1.43
    P4                 1.294    1.342    1.336       0.042       0.52      0.007    0.071    0.028    0.021    0.30
    P5                 1.291    1.581    1.583       0.292       2.98      0.042    0.325    0.282    0.241    2.66
    D(5,1)             0.617    0.606    0.613                             0.520    0.537    0.522
    t-stat.             2.76    2.70      2.97                              2.69     2.70     2.71
    P(H,L)             0.320             0.909                             0.281             0.760
    t-stat.             1.51              3.88                              1.43              3.72



              Panel B. Independent Double Sort on Price Momentum and Residual Institutional Ownership
                                        Raw return                                     Adjusted return
                                           K=3                                                K=3
    Momentum            Low     Med      High    D(H,L)          t-stat.   Low      Med      High     D(H,L)   t-stat.
    P1                  0.626   0.957    1.049   0.423            3.00     -0.526   -0.221   -0.178   0.348     2.74
    P2                  1.209   1.332    1.151   -0.057          -0.50     -0.053    0.074   -0.119   -0.066   -0.63
    P3                  1.350   1.356    1.258   -0.092          -0.80     0.022    0.090    -0.047   -0.069   -0.68
    P4                  1.228   1.327    1.231       0.002       0.02      -0.049   0.042    -0.040   0.009    0.09
    P5                  1.215   1.591    1.639       0.424       3.39      -0.031   0.340    0.355    0.386    3.32
    D(5,1)              0.589   0.634    0.590                             0.495    0.560    0.532
    t-stat.             2.30    2.55      2.51                             2.23     2.48     2.40
    P(H,L)             0.166             1.013                             0.147             0.880
    t-stat.             0.64              4.05                             0.63              3.90

                                           K=6                                                K=6
    Momentum            Low     Med      High    D(H,L)          t-stat.   Low      Med      High     D(H,L)   t-stat.
    P1                  0.637   0.965    1.022       0.385       2.96      -0.502   -0.222   -0.207   0.296    2.61
    P2                  1.138   1.275    1.188       0.050       0.47      -0.126   0.017    -0.085   0.041    0.42
    P3                  1.295   1.377    1.286   -0.009          -0.09     -0.009   0.102    -0.006   0.003    0.03
    P4                  1.308   1.373    1.295   -0.013          -0.13     0.022    0.077    0.014    -0.008   -0.08
    P5                  1.210   1.586    1.655       0.445       3.88      -0.042   0.326    0.364    0.406    3.85
    D(5,1)              0.572   0.621    0.633                             0.461    0.548    0.571
    t-stat.             2.48    2.85      2.99                             2.34     2.83     2.89
    P(H,L)             0.188             1.018                             0.165             0.866
    t-stat.             0.82              4.26                             0.80              4.14




                                                              
                                                             

                                                   TABLE 5
       Excess Returns for Portfolios Based on Earnings Surprise and Constraint Measures

Table 5 presents average excess returns (in percent) during the 60 trading days following quarterly earnings

announcements for earnings surprise-investment constraints double-sorted portfolios for the 1980 to 2013

period. The excess returns are raw returns adjusted for size-decile portfolio returns. The two measures for

investment constraints are overweight ratio and residual IO. Panel A reports results using overweight ratio as

the constraint measure, and Panel B reports results based on the residual-IO. Earnings surprise is defined as the

actual earnings per share minus consensus analyst forecast, standardized by per share book value of equity.

Each quarter, all available stocks are sorted into quintiles (E1-E5) based on next quarter’s earnings surprise. E1

refers to the portfolio with the most negative earnings surprise and E5 the most positive. The stocks are then

independently sorted based on their overweight ratio or residual IO into three groups: Low, Med, High. The

earnings surprise- overweight ratio (or earnings surprise-residual IO) portfolios are obtained by intersecting the

two sorts. We report average excess returns and the difference in the average excess returns between the high

overweight ratio (or residual-IO) portfolio and the low overweight ratio (or residual-IO) for each earnings

surprise sort (column D(H–L)).


                 Panel A. Independent Double Sort on Earnings Surprise and Overweight Ratio
     Earnings Surprise           Low            Med             High            D(H,L)            t-stat.
     E1                        -1.226          -0.579           -0.362           0.864             2.62
     E2                        -1.079          -0.442           -0.959           0.109             0.33
     E3                        -0.091          0.087            -0.001           0.091             0.29
     E4                        1.068           1.661            1.800            0.732             2.14
     E5                        3.673           4.126            4.608            0.936             2.58

          Panel B. Independent Double Sort on Earnings Surprise and Residual Institutional Ownership
     Earnings Surprise           Low            Med             High            D(H,L)            t-stat.
     E1                        -1.312          -0.542           -0.431           0.881             2.22
     E2                        -1.118          -0.620           -0.717           0.392             1.09
     E3                        -0.209          -0.124           0.229            0.438             1.38
     E4                        1.066           1.542            1.858            0.793             2.08
     E5                        3.612           4.245            4.446            0.834             2.66



                                                         
                                                        

                                                   TABLE 6
                               Fama-MacBeth Cross-Sectional Regressions

Table 6 reports the results of Fama-MacBeth cross-sectional regressions of individual stock returns on firm

characteristics variables and measures of investment constraints. The cross-sectional regressions are run once a

quarter. In quarter t’s regression, the dependent variable is the average monthly stock returns over the same

quarter. The overweight ratio (OR) and the residual-Institutional Ownership (RIO) are measured at the end of

quarter t-1. The control variables include firm size measured at the end of last quarter, book-to-market equity

ratio (B/M) and return on equity (ROE) measured as of the end of the previous year, standard deviation of

monthly returns over the past two years expressed in percent (Volatility), average monthly turnover over the

past six months (Turnover), average monthly stock returns over the past six months (Moment(-6)), and the net

institutional trading over the past six months (Trading). Panel A reports the results based on the overweight

ratio. Model (2) adds as regressors the interaction of OR with a dummy that takes value 1 for stocks whose past

6-month return is in the lowest quintile (loser stocks) as well as the interaction of OR with an winner dummy.

Panel B reports the results based on residual-IO. Model (2) adds as regressors the interaction of RIO with a

loser dummy and the interaction of RIO with a winner dummy. The table reports the time-series averages of the

estimated coefficients from the cross-sectional regressions and their t-statistics. The sample includes domestic

common stocks traded on NYSE, AMEX, and NASDAQ from 1980 to 2013, excluding REITs, closed-end

funds, ADRs, as well as stocks that are priced below $5 or that rank in the lowest market capitalization decile as

of the end of the previous calendar year.




                                                        
                                                       



                 Panel A. The Impact of Overweight Ratio (OR)
                           Model (1)                  Model (2)
    Parameter           Estimate    t-stat.        Estimate     t-stat.

    Intercept             1.374      7.58           1.374       7.49
    Size                 -0.012     -1.47           -0.012      -1.41
    B/M                   0.122      1.43           0.118       1.38
    ROE                   0.098      0.90           0.077       0.70
    Volatility           -0.029     -1.66           -0.028      -1.62
    Turnover             -0.021     -2.89           -0.021      -2.97
    Moment(-6)            5.116      3.38           5.048       3.34
    Trading              -0.129     -0.54           -0.168      -0.71
    OR                    0.764      2.70           0.415       1.43
    Loser*OR                                        1.079       2.62
    Winner*OR                                       0.958       2.08



         Panel B. The Impact of Residual-Institutional Ownership (RIO)
                           Model (1)                  Model (2)
    Parameter           Estimate    t-stat.        Estimate     t-stat.

    Intercept             1.414      7.39           1.411       7.32
    Size                 -0.009     -1.17           -0.009      -1.18
    B/M                   0.086      0.88           0.087       0.88
    ROE                   0.164      1.31           0.152       1.19
    Volatility           -0.029     -1.57           -0.028      -1.53
    Turnover             -0.021     -3.00           -0.022      -3.06
    Moment(-6)            5.527      3.61           5.389       3.54
    Trading              -0.261     -0.95           -0.310      -1.13
    ResIO                 0.461      2.20           0.210       1.00
    Loser*RIO                                       0.601       2.27
    Winner*RIO                                      0.807       3.08




                                        
                                       

                                                  TABLE 7
                        Monthly Returns for Portfolios Based on Price Momentum
                     and the Investment Constraints by Different Types of Institutions

Table 7 presents the average monthly returns (in percent) of portfolios independently double-sorted by

momentum and overweight ratio (Low, Med, or High) separately for quasi-indexers and for transient

institutions. P1 refers to the portfolio with the lowest past six-month return and P5 the highest. We report the

average monthly equal-weighted returns of the momentum-investment constraints portfolios over the

subsequent 3 to 6 months (holding period K=3, 6 months).




    Quasi-Indexer
                                       K=3                                             K=6
     Institutions
    Momentum           Low    Med     High    D(H,L)       t-stat.   Low      Med     High     D(H,L)    t-stat.
    P1                0.621   0.955   1.104    0.484       3.81      0.674   0.975    1.013     0.339    2.83
    P2                1.211   1.237   1.263    0.051       0.57      1.157   1.189    1.255     0.098    1.30
    P3                1.237   1.381   1.359    0.122       1.42      1.245   1.328    1.395     0.150    2.00
    P4                1.170   1.309   1.276    0.106       1.21      1.271   1.354    1.338     0.067    0.91
    P5                1.353   1.491   1.616    0.263       2.53      1.360   1.533    1.593     0.234    2.56
    D(5,1)            0.732   0.536   0.512                          0.685   0.558    0.581
    t-stat.            2.90   2.11    2.26                           3.02     2.49     2.89
    P(H,L)            0.248           0.995                          0.347            0.919
    t-stat.            1.03           3.96                           1.65              3.91

       Transient
                                       K=3                                             K=6
      Institutions
    Momentum           Low    Med     High    D(H,L)       t-stat.   Low      Med     High     D(H,L)    t-stat.
    P1                0.727   0.921   0.940    0.213       1.88      0.776   0.968    0.857     0.081    0.84
    P2                1.210   1.273   1.215    0.005       0.05      1.170   1.209    1.219     0.049    0.56
    P3                1.299   1.318   1.349    0.051       0.54      1.293   1.301    1.357     0.064    0.77
    P4                1.243   1.272   1.272    0.029       0.30      1.312   1.320    1.346     0.034    0.41
    P5                1.346   1.559   1.542    0.195       1.78      1.319   1.532    1.590     0.272    2.93
    D(5,1)            0.619   0.638   0.602                          0.543   0.564    0.734
    t-stat.            2.54   2.49    2.51                           2.54     2.50     3.35
    P(H,L)            0.406           0.815                          0.462            0.814
    t-stat.            1.58           3.50                           2.06              3.75




                                                        
                                                       

                                                   TABLE 8
                                 Monthly Returns for Portfolios Based on
                           Institutional Trading and Investment Constraints

Panel A presents average monthly returns (in percent) of portfolios double sorted on stock price momentum and

institutional trading activity. Panel B presents average monthly returns (in percent) of portfolios double sorted

on institutional trading activity and the overweight ratio. In Panel A, at the end of each quarter, all available

stocks are sorted into five momentum quintiles (P1-P5) based on stock returns over the past six months. P1

refers to the portfolio with the lowest return and P5 the highest. The stocks are then independently sorted based

on aggregate institutional trading activity during the same six month period into three groups (Sell, Med, Buy).

The momentum-trading portfolios are obtained by intersecting these two sorts. We report average monthly

equal-weighted returns of the momentum-trading portfolios over the subsequent 3 to 6 months (holding period

K=3, 6 months). We also report the difference in average monthly returns between the high net institutional

trading portfolio and the low net institutional trading portfolio for each momentum sort (column D(B–S)). In

Panel B, we double sort stocks based on aggregate institutional trading activity during the past six months (Sell,

Med, Buy) and the overweight ratio of the stocks at the end of the quarter (Low-OR, Med, High-OR). We report

average monthly equal-weighted returns of the trading-OR portfolios over the subsequent 3 to 6 months

(holding period K=3, 6 months). In addition, we report: (1) difference in average monthly returns between the

high overweight ratio portfolio and the low overweight ratio portfolio for each institutional trading sort (column

D(H–L)); (2) the difference of institutional trading portfolio within each overweight ratio portfolio (row D(B-

S)); and (3) difference in average monthly returns between the high overweight ratio/Buy portfolio and the low

overweight ratio/Sell portfolio, as well as between the low overweight ratio/Buy portfolio and the high

overweight ratio /Sell portfolio (row labeled by “P(H,L)”).




                                                        
                                                       


              Panel A. Independent Double Sort on Price Momentum and Institutional Trading Activity
                                    K=3                                               K=6

    Momentum      Sell     Med      Buy      D(B,S)   t-stat.       Sell     Med      Buy      D(B,S)   t-stat.
    P1            0.742   0.769     0.566    -0.176   -1.87        0.752    0.828     0.617    -0.135   -1.79
    P2            1.203   1.270     1.137    -0.066   -0.80        1.186    1.196     1.089    -0.096   -1.47
    P3            1.297   1.385     1.139    -0.158   -2.10        1.309    1.335     1.197    -0.113   -1.82
    P4            1.248   1.207     1.260    0.012     0.17        1.318    1.312     1.295    -0.023   -0.41
    P5            1.495   1.411     1.479    -0.016   -0.17        1.502    1.447     1.472    -0.029   -0.37



              Panel B. Independent Double Sort on Institutional Trading Activity and Overweight Ratio

                                    K=3                                               K=6
                  Low               High                           Low                High
    Trade                  Med               D(H,L)   t-stat.                Med               D(H,L)   t-stat.
                   OR                OR                             OR                 OR
    Sell          1.030   1.300     1.312    0.282     3.30        1.094    1.312     1.276     0.182   2.28
    Med           1.121   1.300     1.338    0.217     2.55        1.158    1.313     1.342     0.184   2.33
    Buy           1.129   1.258     1.290    0.161     1.82        1.106    1.271     1.304     0.197   2.47
    D(B,S)        0.099   -0.042   -0.023                          0.012    -0.041    0.028
    t-stat.       1.180   -0.500   -0.290                          0.170    -0.600    0.430
    P(H,L)       -0.183             0.260                          -0.170             0.209
    t-stat.      -1.820             2.560                          -1.930             2.150




                                                        
                                                       
