                        Down and Out in the Stock Market:

                  The Law and Finance of the Delisting Process




                                    Jonathan Macey
                                    Yale Law School

                                  Maureen O’Hara
              Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University

                                  David Pompilio
              Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University




                                    November 2003
                                 This version July 2004




We gratefully acknowledge the assistance of Pink Sheets, Inc. for providing us with data.
We also thank Sean Wang for research assistance, and Edward Altman, Ian Ayres, Ron
Daniels, Simone Gervais, Roberta Romano, Peter Schuck, George Sofianos, Ingrid Werner,
Carl Giangrasso (Pink Sheets), Shawn Jenkins (AMEX), Edward Knight (Nasdaq), James
F. Duffy (NYSE), Ed Kwalwasser (NYSE), and Dina Maher (NYSE) for their help with this
paper. We have also greatly benefited from the comments of seminar and conference
participants at Berkeley, Boston College, Carnegie-Mellon, Cornell, New York University,
the Yale Law School Faculty Workshop, and the Financial Intermediation Research
Society meetings in Capri.
                                                                                                2


    Down and Out in the Stock Market: The Law and Finance of the Delisting Process


                                            Abstract

Since 1995 more than 7300 firms have delisted from U.S. stock markets, with almost half of
these being involuntary. This paper examines the law and finance of the delisting process. We
examine economic rationales for delisting, the legal rules that define it, and the causes of
delisting. Using a sample of NYSE firms delisted in 2002, we examine the effects of their
delisting and subsequent trading on the Pink Sheets. We find huge costs to delisting, with
percentage spreads tripling, volatility doubling, but volume remarkably high. We also show that
delisting is applied inconsistently, with some firms trading for months after failing the listing
requirements. We argue that the current delisting process is flawed, and we provide some
alternatives.
                                                                                                             3




                                     Down and Out in the Stock Market:
                           The Law and Finance of the Delisting Process
I. Introduction

        Lost in the turmoil surrounding the stock market’s recent rise and fall is an interesting

fact: since 1995, more than 7350 firms have delisted from U.S. stock exchanges and markets.

Some of these delisted firms left voluntarily for reasons such as mergers, but almost half of all

delistings were involuntary, forced upon firms by the very exchanges and markets on which they

listed. The practice of delisting stocks that fail to meet certain financial criteria is curious for

many reasons: it hurts the firms being delisted; it harms the investors holding those shares; and

it removes from the exchange or stock market a security that traders wish to transact. Moreover,

the delisting decision is generally left to the discretion of the listing venue, giving stock

exchanges and markets a formidable amount of power over firms. Given the far-reaching impact

of delisting, an analysis of this economic process seems overdue.

        The purpose of this paper is to examine the law and finance of the delisting process.

While we believe the delisting phenomenon is interesting and important in its own right, this

process also provides a valuable lens through which the competitive behavior of stock markets

can be viewed. In earlier work, we have argued that the business of being a stock exchange has

evolved dramatically, with the competitive calculus now involving primarily the provision of

liquidity.1 Against this competitive backdrop, we argue that, while delisting weak firms may


1
   Jonathan Macey & Maureen O’Hara, The Economics of Stock Exchange Listing Fees and Listing Requirements”
11 Journal of Financial Intermediation 297 (2002); Jonathan Macey & Maureen O’Hara, “Globalization, Exchange
Governance, and the Future of Exchanges,” in Brookings Wharton Papers on Financial Services – 1999, (R. Litan
and A. Santomero, eds.); Jonathan Macey & Maureen O’Hara, “Regulating Exchanges and Alternative Trading
Systems: A Law and Economics Perspective,” 28 Journal of Legal Studies 17 (1999); see also, Jonathan Macey and
Hideki Kanda, “The Stock Exchange as a Firm: The Emergence of Close Substitutes For the New York and Tokyo
Stock Exchanges,” 75 Cornell Law Review, 1007 (1990).
                                                                                                   4


have made economic sense a few decades ago, delisting companies whose economic

performance has suffered is now much more questionable. We suggest that the costs and

benefits of the delisting process are sub-optimally allocated, with the few benefits accruing to the

exchanges and the large costs being borne by firms and their investors. Our analysis suggests a

substantial re-thinking of the rules and practices of delisting stocks from U.S. equity markets

       To develop our analysis, we first consider the economic and legal environment defining

the delisting decision. We outline the economic rationales offered for delisting firms, and the

various clienteles affected by the delisting decision. We then set out the rules governing

delisting on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Nasdaq (National Association of

Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system), and we summarize the procedures used by the

NYSE and Nasdaq in delisting actions. Despite the seeming clarity of these rules, we argue that

the decision to delist is applied inconsistently, with both the NYSE and Nasdaq exercising

considerable discretion in the application of their rules. This discretion reflects an ambiguity

within the markets themselves regarding the optimality of delisting firms, particularly those with

large trading volumes.

       We then turn to the economic impact of delisting, and in particular to an analysis of the

costs and benefits of delisting. Using a sample of firms delisted from the New York Stock

Exchange in 2002, we examine the effects of delisting on the trading of these shares. The

sample of firms we analyze is interesting for two reasons. First, for a variety of reasons, most

delisted NYSE firms end up trading on the “Pink Sheets”, a trading venue little analyzed in the

finance literature. We use data provided to us by Pink Sheets, Inc. to examine the subsequent

trading of these stocks, thus allowing us to analyze how delisting affects trading volume, spreads,

prices and volatility. A second feature of our data is that the delisted NYSE firms in 2002
                                                                                                                5


include a number of very large (and prominent) firms such as Enron, Global Crossing, and

USAirways. Our analysis of their subsequent trading in the over the counter market suggests

that delisting may have very different effects across large and small firms.

        Our research provides a number of contributions, a few of which we emphasize here.

First, our analysis quantifies the very real effects that delisting has for the trading of, and the

investors in, a stock. Investors clearly face very large costs, with share prices falling

approximately in half when delisting occurs. Moreover, percentage spreads on average triple

when a stock moves to the Pink Sheets, with a median spread of 25% for our sample on the

opening day on the Pink Sheets. Similarly, we find a dramatic increase in volatility between the

two venues, with Pink Sheet volatility more than double compared to the volatility when the

stocks traded on the NYSE. While prices continue to decline after delisting, volume remains

remarkably high, with average first day trading in our sample of more than 2 million shares.

These high volumes suggest that exchanges lose valuable trading opportunities by delisting

shares. Our results here add to the limited, but very interesting, literature (see Sanger and

Peterson [1990]; Shumway [1997]; and Shumway and Warther [1999]) on the economic effects

of delisting. Our particular focus on NYSE stocks complements a recent paper by Panchapegesan

and Werner [2004] looking at market quality issues surrounding the delisting of Nasdaq stocks.

        Second, our analysis provides some interesting insights into the trading of non-listed

securities. The literature here is particularly limited, with only a very few researchers having

looked at OTC trading, and fewer still looking at trading over the Pink Sheets2. Our analysis

suggests that for, at least some firms, different trading mechanisms entail very different effects


2
 The OTC (or over the counter) market is primarily composed of the OTCBB and the Pink Sheets. Because the
OTCBB is owned and operated by the NASD, it is subject to greater regulation and disclosure requirements than the
Pink Sheets. An interesting paper looking at the impact of SEC disclosure regulations on OTC firms is Bushee and
Luez [2003]. For details on the operation of the OTCBB see also Panchapegesan and Werner [2004].
                                                                                                      6


on the price process. While small firm trading appears to deteriorate on the Pink Sheets relative

to on the NYSE, large firm trading is less affected. Indeed, we find the unexpected result that

dollar spreads actually fall for large firms moving to the Pink Sheets. This difference may reflect

the fact that liquidity for a firm’s shares arises both endogenously (from characteristics of the

firm and its equity issue) and exogenously from the trading mechanism. For firms with

sufficient endogenous liquidity, the form of trading mechanism may primarily influence

transactions costs. For some firms, it appears that these costs are actually lower on the electronic

Pink Sheets venue than on the NYSE.

       Third, our analysis sets out a number of important policy issues relating to the delisting

and trading of faltering firms. We argue here that while delisting may be necessary in some

cases, its current application is too arbitrary, with some firms trading for months (or even years)

after violating the listing requirements. Moreover, we question whether the general application

of delisting rules is draconian, resulting as it does in firms moving to a venue which is both

illiquid and virtually unregulated. We suggest that investors in delisted firms be provided with a

“soft-landing” in the form of an efficient alternative trading venue when these firms fail

traditional listing requirements. We outline a number of issues and alternatives for exchanges

and regulators to consider with regards to the delisting process.

       Finally, our results are also relevant for the recent research investigating the survival rates

and mortality of firms (see, for example, Fama and French [2004]; Seguin and Smoller [1997]).

Fama and French [2004] argue that the decreased survival rate of firms in the 1990’s is at least

partially related to changes in listing standards that allowed weaker firms to enter the markets.

Our analysis here shows that delisting procedures may also play a role in explaining firm

mortality.
                                                                                                      7


       This paper is organized as follows. The next section sets out the economic rationale for

delisting, and establishes the reasons why so many firms have been delisted in the past seven

years. This section also sets out the legal framework surrounding delisting on both the NYSE

and the Nasdaq. Section 3 then investigates the costs of delisting by looking at a sample

comprised of the firms delisted from the NYSE in 2002. Our analysis here examines the impact

of delisting and moving to the Pink Sheets on spreads, volumes, volatilities, and prices. Section

4 then discusses the implications of our results for the exchange delisting decision, the regulatory

treatment of delisting, and alternatives for the trading of faltering stocks.



II. The Law and Economics of Delisting

       From an economics perspective, delisting rules can be divided into two analytical

categories. In the first category are those rules designed to insure that the exchange’s

relationship with the listed company remains profitable. It is costly for exchanges to continue to

list firms whose trading is sporadic. Moreover, it may be difficult for specialists or market

makers are to profitably quote a two-sided market if such episodic volume is too informationally-

driven. Because exchanges derive their livelihood from fees associated with trading, it is

economically sensible that trading not entail losses for the listing venue.

       A second category of delisting rules is designed to protect the reputation of the trading

venue where the shares list. In other work, we have argued that exchanges traditionally provided

a vector of services to investors and issuers, including standardized rules, monitoring of trading,

clearing and settlement, liquidity, and a signaling function. Delisting rules allowed the exchange

to preserve the value of the “signal” associated with listing on a particular trading venue. This

could enhance the exchange’s self-regulatory role by allowing it to expel errant firms, thereby
                                                                                                                   8


enforcing the norms of the exchange. Furthermore, investors could rely on the integrity of firms

listed on the exchange because their trading signified having met these underlying standards.

        Whether such signal-based rules are still sensible is debatable. Certainly, investors have

myriad sources of information today regarding firm’s prospects, suggesting less reliance on the

listing venue. A second complicating factor is that where a firm trades is now often divorced

from where a firm lists (see Macey and O’Hara [2002] for discussion). These factors undermine

the traditional investor protection argument for delisting, as issue we will return to in Section 4

of the paper. Similarly, the deterrent role of delisting is also questionable. As will be seen in the

next section, despite the recent spate of corporate scandals, few firms are actually delisted for

aberrant behavior. The intense competition between exchanges for listings may be at least

partially responsible for this reticence to delist.3

        The legal requirements that cover delisting are remarkably complex, even within the

context of securities laws generally. Adding to the complexity of the delisting rules is the

significant discretion that the trading markets have in their application of these rules. This

discretion allows listing venues considerable latitude in determining when to apply their delisting

standards.

        In the U.S., virtually all firms list on one of three venues: the New York Stock Exchange,

the Nasdaq, and the American Stock Exchange.4 The regional exchanges have the ability to list

firms, but few do so actively. Just as listing criteria differ, so, too, do delisting criteria. As the

3
  Indeed, the ability of firms to voluntarily delist and move to another venue has created a recurrent problem for
exchanges in enforcing their rules. Thus, the NYSE chose to abandon its rules against dual class shares in the face
of General Motors and Dow Jones threats to move to the Nasdaq (where such share structures were allowed). See
also Baglole [2004] for a discussion of similar problems at the Hong Kong Exchange.
4
  Traditionally, firms have not listed on more than one venue, and the voluntary movement of firms between listing
venues has virtually always involved firms “graduating” from the Nasdaq or Amex to the NYSE (the exception to
this is Aeroflex, Inc. which shifted from the NYSE to the Nasdaq in February 2000). This single-listing practice has
recently been called into question by Nasdaq’s offer to waive listing fees for Dow-Jones Index funds listed on the
NYSE, thus setting the stage for dual-listing. In February 2004, Hewlitt-Packard became the first firm to officially
dual list on both markets.
                                                                                                                       9


NYSE and the Nasdaq rules cover most firms, it is useful to consider in more detail the specific

rules of these two settings.

A. The NYSE

           The NYSE sets out three numeric requirements for delisting, and numerous more

subjective criteria. First, listed companies must meet minimum distribution requirements for

their shares. Specifically, the New York Stock Exchange will consider delisting a firm if the

number of total stockholders drops below 400, or the total number of stockholders is less than

1,200, and the average monthly trading volume for the previous twelve months is less than

100,000 shares.5 The Exchange also will consider delisting when the number of publicly-held

shares is less than 600,000.6 These distribution rules seem designed to insure that there is

continued trading volume in order to justify the costs to the Exchange of listing a stock.

           Second, the Exchange will consider delisting if a company fails to meet certain market

capitalization requirements.7 The Exchange will consider delisting when either the average

“global market capitalization” over a consecutive 30 trading-day period is less than $15 million.

If total stockholders equity falls below 50 million, the average global market capitalization must

be at least $50 million.8 For companies that qualified for original listing under the global market

capitalization standard, the Exchange will consider delisting if either the companies average

global market capitalization over a thirty trading-day period is less than $100 million or the



5
  NYSE Listed Company Manual § 802.01(A). (hereinafter NYSE). These numerical cutoffs are designed to insure
that there is a minimum amount of trading interest in securities listed on the NYSE. The total number of
stockholders can fall to 400, unless the average monthly trading volume for the previous twelve months is less than
100,000 shares, in which case the total number of shareholders must be 1,200. Where total stockholders equity falls
below the $50 million threshold, the global market capitalization increases from $15 million to $50 million
6
    Id.
7
    NYSE § 802.01(B).
8
 NYSE § 802.01(B)(i) and (ii). As with the numerical cutoffs regarding the number of shareholders the numerical
cutoffs regarding market capitalization are designed to insure that there is a minimum amount of trading interest in
securities listed on the NYSE. Where total stockholders equity falls below the $50 million threshold, the global
market capitalization increases from $15 million to $50 million.
                                                                                                                   10


average global market capitalization over a thirty trading-day period is less than $500 million

and total revenues are less than $20 million over the last twelve months, unless the entity

qualifies for listing under a different original listing standard.9

         Third, the Exchange will consider delisting if the average closing price of a security is

less than one dollar over a consecutive thirty trading-day period.10 If, however, the minimum

average closing price is the only criteria the company fails to meet, it will not automatically be

subject to the Exchange’s delisting procedures.11 Instead, the Exchange will notify the company,

and provide it with six months to cure the deficiency.12 If, after six months, the average closing

price remains below one dollar, the Exchange will begin standard delisting procedures.13

         In addition to the numeric criteria, just described, the Exchange will, at its discretion,

consider delisting the company if it fails to meet a number of other criteria. The Exchange will

consider delisting if the company’s operating assets have been substantially reduced in size,

regardless of the reasons for the reduction.14 If the company files for bankruptcy, or announces

its intention to file, “under any of the sections of the bankruptcy law,” then the Exchange may

consider delisting.15

         The Exchange will also consider delisting if any of the following occurs: (1) the

Exchange receives authoritative advice that the security is without value; (2) the securities

registration is no longer effective; (3) proxies are not solicited for all meetings of stockholders;

(4) the company violates its listing agreement; (5) whenever an entire class, issue, or series of

securities are retired through payment or redemption; or (6) the company engages in operations

9
  NYSE § 802.01(B)(iii). Affiliated companies are not subject to the market capitalization standard, as long as their
parent companies meet the standard and still control the affiliate.
10
   NYSE § 802.01(C).
11
   Id.
12
   Id.
13
   Id.
14
   NYSE § 802.01(D).
15
   Id.
                                                                                                                11


that, in the opinion of the Exchange, are contrary to the public interest. Moreover, the Exchange

will also consider delisting when any of the following conditions are met: (1) the number of

publicly held-shares is less than 100,000; (2) the number of holders is less than 100; or (3) the

aggregate market value of shares is less than $1,000,000.16

        Finally, the Exchange reserves the right to “make an appraisal of, and determine on an

individual basis, the suitability for continued listing of an issue in the light of all pertinent facts

whenever it deems such action appropriate, even though a security meets or fails to meet any

enumerated criteria.”17

B. Nasdaq

        The delisting requirements on the Nasdaq have many of the same features as the NYSE

requirements. A company whose shares are listed on the Nasdaq National Market must meet

certain “Maintenance Standards” in order to remain listed.18 Specifically, Nasdaq will consider

delisting if any of the following minimum criteria are not met: (1) stockholders’ equity of $10

million, (2) 750,000 shares publicly held, (3) market value of publicly held shares of at least $5

million for thirty consecutive business days, (4) bid price not less than one dollar for thirty

consecutive business days, (5) 400 shareholders of round lots, and (6) at least two market makers

for ten consecutive business days. In addition, securities must be in compliance with the

quantitative maintenance criteria in the NASD’s Rule 4300 series. In addition, Nasdaq may also

delist if the company files, or announces that the board has authorized liquidation, under any

section of the bankruptcy laws.19



16
   Id.
17
   An intriguing example of such discretionary delisting is the NYSE’s delisting on February 20, 1961 of five Cuban
railroads and sugar companies following the expropriation of the their assets by Fidel Castro’s communist
government.
18
   NASD Manual § 4450. (hereinafter NASD).
19
   NASD § 4450(a)(1)-(a)(6); (e)(1)-(e)(3).
                                                                                                     12


           Like the NYSE, the Nasdaq Stock Market’s formal justification for its continued listing

requirements is, in essence, a signaling argument:

                    The Nasdaq Stock Market stands for integrity and ethical business practices in
                    order to enhance investor confidence, thereby contributing to the financial health
                    of the economy and supporting the capital formation process. Nasdaq issuers,
                    from new public companies to companies of international stature, by being
                    included in Nasdaq, are publicly recognized as sharing these important objectives
                    of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Nasdaq, therefore, in addition to applying the
                    enumerated criteria set forth in the Rule 4300 and 4400 Series, will exercise broad
                    discretionary authority over the initial and continued inclusion of securities in
                    Nasdaq in order to maintain the quality of and public confidence in its market.
                    Under such broad discretion… Nasdaq may deny initial inclusion or apply
                    additional or more stringent criteria for the initial or continued inclusion of
                    particular securities or suspend or terminate the inclusion of particular securities
                    based on any event, condition, or circumstance which exists or occurs that makes
                    initial or continued inclusion of the securities in Nasdaq inadvisable or
                    unwarranted in the opinion of Nasdaq, even though the securities meet all
                    enumerated criteria for initial or continued inclusion in Nasdaq.20

C. Corporate Governance Listing Standards

           Both the NYSE and Nasdaq may delist companies not in compliance with their respective

corporate governance listing standards. Delisting for noncompliance with these standards,

however, is rare; the exchanges tend to encourage compliance through “negotiation with

issuers.”21 Foreign companies can even obtain waivers for these requirements if similar

requirements do not exist in the foreign state’s law.22 In light of the recent corporate scandals,

both the NYSE and the Nasdaq have tightened their corporate governance listing standards.

Whether such heightened standards result in actual delistings remains to be seen.




20
      NASD § 4300
21
     57 Bus. Law 1487, 1491.
22
     Id. at 1514.
                                                                                                    13


      D. The Delisting Process

          If the NYSE determines that delisting procedures are appropriate, then the Exchange staff

will notify, in writing, the company, which must then issue a press release to that effect.23 The

company may request that the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Exchange review the

decision within ten days of receiving the notification.24 The Committee will receive briefs and

oral arguments on the delisting.25 The request for review usually stays the delisting proceedings.

During the review, however, the Exchange may, at its discretion, suspend trading of the

security.26 Failing such review, the Exchange will suspend trading and apply to the Securities

and Exchange Commission to strike the security from listing.27

          Similarly, on the Nasdaq if the administrative staff deems it appropriate to begin delisting

procedures, the staff will notify the company, which must then issue a press release disclosing

that delisting has begun.28 The company may appeal to the Nasdaq Hearing Panel.29 The appeal

automatically stays the delisting.30 After an adverse judgment by the Nasdaq Hearing Panel, the

company may appeal to the Nasdaq Listing and Hearing Review Council.31 This appeal does not,

however, stay the delisting.32 While it is possible to appeal an adverse judgment by either the

NYSE or the Nasdaq to the SEC and then to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of

Columbia, this is rarely done.




23
   NYSE § 804.00.
24
   Id.
25
   Id.
26
   Id.
27
   Id.
28
   NASD § 4815(a), (b).
29
   NASD § 4820(a).
30
   Id. Nasdaq may suspend trading of the security during the hearing period.
31
     NASD § 4840.
32
     NASD §4840(b).
                                                                                                                     14


E. Trading After Delisting

      If an issue has been delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, the issue will be available for

immediate quotation on the Nasdaq Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB), but only for

firms that are not in bankruptcy, and that are current in their financial reporting with the

Securities and Exchange Commission. There also is a formal requirement that market makers

must have issued price quotations in the security during the 30-day period preceding its removal

in order to be eligible for quotation on the OTCBB.33 In principle, this means that, while many

delisting Nasdaq stocks automatically can avail themselves of the liquidity provided by the

OTCBB, firms delisted from the NYSE may face some delay because their shares have not been

quoted by a market maker during the previous thirty days. In practice, however, this constraint

appears to be frequently waived.

      Because the OTCBB is a quotation medium for subscribing members and not an issuer

listing service, a delisted Nasdaq or NYSE issuer cannot “list” themselves on the OTCBB. A

delisted issuer that wishes to be quoted on the OTCBB must submit a request to the SEC and

contact prospective broker-dealer firms to request that these firms register to quote their

securities. The SEC typically expedites the approval process for NYSE firms, so that qualifying

firms that are not bankrupt and have their SEC filings current can move quickly to the OTCBB

upon delisting.




33
  Upon the delisting of a security not in bankruptcy and current in its SEC filings, market makers who have quoted
the security during the 30-day period preceding its removal have 24 hours in which to register quote the security on
the OTCBB. If the issuer does not meet all of the above criteria at the time of its delisting, voluntarily delists from
the Nasdaq, or if no market makers register to quote the security, the usual Form 211 filing and review process will
apply.
                                                                                                                   15


      Most stocks delisted from the NYSE, and some stocks delisted from Nasdaq, move to the

“Pink Sheets,” a trading system operated by the private firm “Pink Sheets LLC.”34 The origins

of the Pink Sheets date to 1904, when the National Quotation Bureau began as a paper-based,

inter-dealer quotation service linking competing market makers in OTC securities. The Pink

Sheets currently quote some 3900 issues, and it is essentially a quotation system for market

makers willing to trade in these issues. There are no listing standards, and the Pink Sheets does

not regulate the market.35 This has led, in the past, to concerns about the market’s fairness and

opacity.



F. The Delisting Decision: Recent Evidence

         Table 1 provides data on the total number of delistings from the NYSE, the Nasdaq, and

the American Stock Exchange for the period 1995 – 2002. As is apparent, the number of

delistings grew on all three exchanges, peaking at 1231 firms in 1999. Delistings have fallen

somewhat since then but they are still substantial, with more than a 1000 firms delisting in 2001

and 747 in 2002. The large number of delistings has resulted in markets growing smaller, with

fewer firms listed in 2002 than was the case in the previous years in the sample.

         The delisting requirements discussed above allow exchanges to delist firms for a wide

range of reasons. In addition, voluntary delistings occur as the natural consequence of a merger,

a decision to take the firm private, or a voluntary liquidation. It is also becoming more common

for non-U.S. firms to withdraw listings voluntarily as part of a retrenchment to listing only in

their home market. Table 2 provides evidence on the mix between voluntary and involuntary


34
   See www.pinksheets.com. The term “pink sheets” derives from the color of the paper on which stock prices for
the firms traded in this market are printed and distributed to traders. Currently the screen on which quotes and other
market information, along with market makers’ phone numbers are displayed is pink in color.
35
   Specifically, under securities law the Pink Sheets is categorized as a SIP, or a securities information processor.
                                                                                                                    16


delistings. As is apparent, voluntary delisting is a much more important factor for the NYSE

than it is for the Nasdaq. Nonetheless, both venues have a substantial number of involuntary, or

regulatory, delistings, and for the Nasdaq market regulatory and voluntary explanations have

approximately equal incidence.

         Firms that are involuntarily delisted often fail more than one of the delisting criteria. To

determine the exact causes of delisting, we reviewed all of the involuntary delistings on the

NYSE and the Nasdaq for the period 1999- 2002. Based on the statements given in the delisting

announcement, we then categorized the main causes for delisting. These data are given in Table

3 (note that the number of causes exceeds the total number of delisted firms due to multiple

reasons for delisting). Not surprisingly, bankruptcy is an important cause for delisting on both

markets. And clearly many firms also fail the minimum assets or market capitalization criteria.

What is more intriguing is the important role played by minimum share price requirement.

Indeed, on the Nasdaq, failure to meet the $1.00 share price is the most commonly cited cause of

delisting, and it is the second most common reason on the NYSE.

         One might have conjectured that firms whose share prices drop below the $1 level could

have avoided delisting by various means such as reverse stock splits, debt-reducing exchange

offers, or even the potential sale of the company. Certainly, many companies do pursue such

strategies, and occasionally avoid, or at least forestall, delisting. For example, Nortel announced

a reverse split in April 2003 specifically to avoid being delisted by Nasdaq, a strategy that is thus

far successful.36 Yet, Popmail found its 10-for-1 reverse split in October 2000 ineffective in


36
  On April 24, 2003, Nortel announced a reverse stock split in order to avoid delisting. See
http://www.nortelnetworks.com/corporate/investor/icorner.html (accessed June 17, 2003). The “huge” stock split
was effectuated in order to “fend off a “near-term delisting possibility.” The split was designed to bring the firm’s
share price from a price of 64¢ to a price in the $10 to $20 range. See http://www.
cnet.com/investor/brokeragecenter/newsitem-broker/0-9910-1082-20468497-0 (accessed June 17, 2003). Another
successful example is 7-Eleven, the Dallas convenience-store chain, who completed a 1-for-5 reverse split in May
2000. The refinancing brought 7-11’s share price up to $20.94 the day of the split from $4.19. Subsequently, the
                                                                                                                      17


supporting its stock price, leading to its delisting in January 2001.37 And a similar fate

confronted London Pacific Group whose reverse split did not forestall its delisting in 2002 by the

NYSE.

         This ineffectiveness is not surprising. Hwang [1995] finds a negative price drop of more

than 9% in his analysis of reverse splits by Nasdaq-listed firms, and similar negative effects are

reported for reverse splits on the NYSE and the ASE (see Woolridge and Chamberse [1983]).

Consequently, firms are often extremely reluctant to utilize reverse stock splits because this

strategy provides a very negative signal to the market.38 Lie, Lie, and McConnell [2001] report a

similar problem arising with debt-reducing exchange offers (DREO), noting their “results are

consistent with the idea that the information conveyed by an announcement of a DREO is that a

firm’s future prospects are even more bleak than would have been anticipated on the basis of

public information prior to the announcement”. Thus, while some firms do succeed in raising

their stock prices via such extraordinary methods, its rarity suggests that for many firms the costs

of doing so are simply too high.39 For those firms, involuntary delisting becomes a reality.

         Having been delisted, the firm now faces the challenge of finding liquidity for its shares

in another trading venue. The stockholders of such firms thus face a double whammy: having

seen the value of their shares decline due to adverse fortunes, they now face the prospect of




firm turned around its fortunes by reducing debt and improving earnings. The split also had “an important
psychological effect in raising 7-Eleven shares above $10.” Id.
37
   See Ruth Simon, “More Companies Are Learning Harsh Lessons on Delistings,” The Wall Street Journal, March
20, 2001, at C1.
38
   Barry Siegel, chairman and chief executive of Driversshield.com made the point succinctly: "Make no mistake, a
reverse split is an act of desperation. It sends a terrible signal that management has tried everything it knows to lift
the stock price and nothing has worked." http://www.twinight.org/avid/2001/avidchat0619pm.html (Avid Traders
Tuesday Evening Chat, accessed June 17, 2003).
39
   For example, 7-Eleven, the Dallas convenience-store chain, completed a 1-for-5 reverse split in May 2000. The
refinancing brought 7-11’s share price up to $20.94 the day of the split from $4.19. Subsequently, the firm turned
around its fortunes by reducing debt and improving earnings. The split also had “an important psychological effect
in raising 7-Eleven shares above $10.” Id.
                                                                                                                   18


greatly reduced liquidity for these distressed shares. How large these liquidity costs are is clearly

an important issue, and in the next section, we investigate these delisting costs in more detail.



III.     From the NYSE to the Pink Sheets: The Impact of Delisting

A. Sample Firms

         As noted earlier, stocks delisted from the NYSE face a limited choice of trading venues.

Although the listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq are less

stringent, the commonality of many of the listing (and delisting) criteria precludes moving to

those venues for many delisted NYSE firms. Moreover as noted earlier, the OTCBB may not be

immediately available for these NYSE firms, particularly for firms who are bankrupt or not

current in their SEC filings. Consequently, most NYSE-delisted securities are relegated to

trading on the Pink Sheets.

         To investigate the impact of delisting, we examined all firms involuntarily delisted from

the New York Stock Exchange in year 2002. We found 63 such forced delistings, with 5 firms

moving to the Amex, 1 to the Nasdaq, and the remaining 57 to the Pink Sheets.40 As our interest

is in post-delisting liquidity, we restricted our sample to those 57 firms moving to the Pink

Sheets to avoid confounding effects arising from different trading mechanisms. We then

obtained daily data from Pink Sheets, Inc. for closing prices, spreads, and volumes for our

sample of firms (with one firm being deleted due to incomplete trading data) We also deleted




40
  Of the sample firms moving to the Pink Sheets, 49 of 57 firms also end up trading on the OTCBB. For some
stocks, listing on the OTCBB is approximately concurrent with Pink Sheet listing, but for other firms there is a delay.
Interestingly, Enron did not trade on the OTCBB at any point in 2002.
                                                                                                                 19


one firm from the sample due to the lack of trading activity.41 The final sample is thus 55 firms,

which are listed in Table 4.

        Our sample includes a number of very prominent firms, including Enron, Global

Crossing, USAirways, and Owens Corning, as well as some less familiar names such as

Coastcast Corporation and Grubb &Ellis. Another interesting feature of our sample is firm age:

32 firms had been trading on the NYSE for 10 years or more before their delisting, with several

representing some of the oldest U.S. firms (Bethelem Steel, for example, incorporated in 1906,

but its origins trace back to 1857). Only 5 of the delisted firms listed since 2000, and three of

these were actually spin-offs of larger firms trading on the NYSE.42

        The diversity in our sample firms suggests the effects of delisting may vary across firms,

particularly if firm size is considered. Firm size at the time of delisting is apt to be misleading,

so we collected data on market capitalization as of January 2, 2001. Our sample firms all delist

at some point in 2002, so this data predate delisting by at least 12 months for each firm. As

shown in Figure 1, these market capitalizations range from over $60 billion (Enron) to $15

million (Asia Pacific Wire & Cable Corporation Limited). For the overall sample, 9 firms have

market capitalizations above $1 billion, 20 firms range between $100 million and $1 billion, and

27 firms have market capitalizations below $100 million. In the following analysis, we report

results for both the overall sample and for various size-based subsets.



41
   An examination for outliers in our trade data revealed one firm Panavision (PVI) had an average dollar spread
more than 50% higher than any other stock in our sample. Further investigation found the stock to have the lowest
NYSE volume (165 shares a day) and the lowest daily Pink Sheet volume (953 shares a day) of any stock in the
sample. Further, PVI had positive volume on only 15 of the 60 days in our post-delisting period (for comparison,
the stock with the second highest spread traded on 57 of 60 days). To avoid spurious inferences, we deleted PVI
from the sample.
42
   Recent studies of firm mortality (for example, Fama and French [2004]) attribute increased mortality rates to the
influx of weaker firms coming to market in the late 1990’s. Our sample includes 15 firms that listed between 1996-
1999, but overall our sample includes a wide variety of firms. The findings of Fama and French are more applicable
to the Nasdaq market where firm tenure before delisting is shorter than on the NYSE.
                                                                                                       20


       We also include in Table 4 the main explanations cited by the NYSE for each firm’s

delisting. Many of the firms violate multiple delisting criteria, but the most cited factors are

share price below the minimum (40 firms) and market capitalizations below the minimum (39

firms). While these two conditions are often congruent, they are not always the same: 12 of the

39 firms delisted for market capitalization did not fail the share price requirement. Bankruptcy

led to the delisting of 20 firms in our sample, with 17 of these firms also failing the share price

requirement.

       Earlier we noted that the listing venues can exercise considerable discretion in the

application of the delisting criteria. To investigate how this discretion affects actual delistings,

we first consider delisting for firms failing the minimum price rule. The NYSE average share

price rule requires delisting if the 30 day average share price falls below $1.00, or delisting can

occur if the share price is “abnormally low”, which is typically defined as below $1.00. For the

40 firms delisted for share price reasons, we calculated the number of trading days prior to the

last day of trading on the NYSE a stock was in violation of the 30 day average price rule or the

overall $1.00 rule.

       Table 5 clearly shows a wide disparity in application of the delisting rules. Bethlehem

Steel, for example, violated the 30 day rule for more than 7 months (154 trading days), while

Mutual Risk Management was delisted after only 1 day. Similarly, Acceptance Insurance

Companies was booted out after failing the $1.00 requirement for 10 days, while Asia Pacific

Wire &Cable Corp traded below $1.00 for more than 215 days. What can account for this

disparity? One possible explanation is size; specifically, the exchange may be more likely to

allow larger, more active stocks to remain in violation. Using our small, medium, and large size

cutoffs, however, we found no significant difference between the mean number of days in
                                                                                                                     21


violation for large stocks (49 days) or other stocks (47.75).43 Perhaps this lack of consistency is

more related to a general ambivalence on the part of the exchange towards enforcing its own

standards.

         A similar discrepancy is exhibited for the 20 firms delisted for bankruptcy reasons.

Although the NYSE rule is to delist all bankrupt firms, there is clearly considerable leeway in

how quickly this actually occurs. For example, Global Crossing was delisted on the day

following its bankruptcy filing, Enron was delisted after 30 trading days, while Owens Corning

traded for more than 2 years after its bankruptcy filing. For the firms in our sample, the average

time between bankruptcy filing and delisting was 131 trading days. Conversely, 4 of the 20

firms the NYSE delisted for bankruptcy never actually went bankrupt; these firms were delisted

after they announced the possibility of a bankruptcy filing. At a minimum, discretion seems to

play a large role in the NYSE’s decision to delist for bankruptcy reasons.

         A second complication in investigating the impact of delisting is that the timing of

delisting and subsequent trading on the Pink Sheets varies across the firms in our sample.44 For

example, for 21 firms, the NYSE announcement of delisting occurs on the last day of NYSE

trading, while the other 34 firms continue to trade on the NYSE for a few days following the

announcement. Similarly, 27 firms in our sample begin trading the next day on the Pink Sheets,

while the others face a short hiatus before the resumption of trading (the average hiatus was 1.27

days). To enhance comparability, we define the delisting date as the announcement date of

delisting. The opening date on Pink Sheets is the first day on which share transactions occur.

Thus, our analysis for Pink Sheet trading is comparable across firms, but some firms may have

43
   The mean number of days for the small stocks was actually higher at 58 days, but this difference is not statistically
siginificant.
44
   Shumway [1997] finds similar disparities in the delisting and subsequent trading of NYSE stocks. He also notes
that while some stocks’ delisting is pre-announced by the company, this is not the case for approximately two-thirds
of his sample.
                                                                                                    22


interim trade data between the announcement date and Pink Sheet trading date that is not

analyzed.

B. Pretty in Pink? Trading on the Pink Sheets

     Table 6 provides data on the first day of Pink Sheet Trading for the stocks in our sample.

We first examine the trading data from the overall sample, which is given in Panel A. A striking

result is that trading volume is both large and variable on the opening day, ranging from 100

shares to more than 53 million shares. The average volume is just over 2 million shares while

the median volume equals 74,000 shares. Thus, while trading volume is small for some firms, it

is extremely large for others. Part of the explanation for these large volumes may lie in the very

low trading prices of the stocks. As the data show, the value of trade on day 1 averages a little

over half a million dollars, with the largest volume stock involving only $16 million in trading

value. This value of trading actually rises over the first five days of trading, and then gradually

declines over the first 60 days of trading. Perhaps not surprisingly, delisted stocks tend not to be

strong performers.

     Panels B, C, and D provide data for the three size subsets of our sample. Again, the data

show surprisingly large trading volumes, with the largest 29 stocks in the sample averaging more

than 1 million shares trading on opening day. For the largest 9 stocks, the median first day

volume is more than 1 million shares, while the average volume is closer to 11 million. These

large volumes suggest that, for at least the largest stocks, exchanges forego substantial trading

revenue when they delist the security.

     Investors also appear to face substantial costs, as evidenced by the average first day

percentage spread of more than 40% and the median spread of 25%. These first day spreads

appear to be quite volatile, suggesting that median first week spreads might give a better
                                                                                                                      23


indication of trading costs. Here we find a median spread of 15.27% for the overall sample. For

the sample as a whole, these median spreads remain relatively stable over the first 60 days of

trading, and actually fall to an average of 11.53% for the three-month period. Nonetheless, the

data suggest that investors face substantial costs in trading stocks moving to the Pink Sheets.

      Examining the three subgroups, however, suggests that these costs are very different for

traders in the largest stocks. For the 9 firms in our top size group, first day median spreads are

just 2.47%, and they rise to 5.84 % when measured over the first 60 days of trading. By

comparison, the 60 day median spread for the middle 20 stocks is 13.60% and it is 14.93% for

the smallest 27 stocks in the sample. This disparity in spreads suggests that the trading

mechanism per se is not the sole determinant of trading cost. Instead, the liquidity of firms also

is affected by endogenous characteristics such as trading volume and the number of shareholders.

      An interesting question is how these new entrants to the Pink Sheets fare in terms of return

to their investors. Figure 2 plots the value of $100 invested in an equally weighted portfolio of

our sample stocks formed on their first day of Pink Sheet Trading. For comparison, we also

formed a similar portfolio composed of only the 9 largest stocks in our sample. We measure

returns based on changes in closing prices. After 60 trading days, the value of both portfolios

has declined, with the overall sample losing approximately 20% of value and the larger firms

losing more than 40%. Interestingly, the values of both portfolios increase over the first weeks

of trading, with the overall sample portfolio trading above (and at times almost 30% higher) its

initial value for more than the first 30 trading days.45 These data suggest that while purchasing

stocks on the first day of Pink Sheet trading and holding no more than 30 days may be a

profitable trading strategy for stocks overall, it is not profitable for the larger stocks. Given both

45
  One factor that may be influencing the initial behavior of these stocks is portfolio rebalancing, as the clientele of
investors changes to reflect the unlisted status of these shares. SEC rules preclude most institutions from holding
unlisted shares, thus forcing owners to move out of these shares.
                                                                                                                  24


the meager trading volume in small stocks, and the large spreads in all stocks, however, it is

implausible that returns remain positive when overall trading costs are properly included.

C.    The Impact of Delisting: Before and After Comparisons

         The data show that traders face substantial liquidity costs once stocks begin trading on

the Pink Sheets. What is not clear, however, is whether these costs are any greater than the costs

accompanying trading on the NYSE before delisting. A related question is how the delisting

decision, per se, affects the overall price, volume, and trading behavior of the stock. To address

these issues, we gathered data for the 60 day pre-delisting period for each stock in our sample

from the TAQ data base and from CRSP. Table 7 summarizes this data for prices, volumes,

spreads and volatility.

         Perhaps the most immediate impact of the delisting announcement is on price. As Panel

A shows, on the last day of NYSE trading, the average stock in our sample closed at a price of

$0.95; on the first day of Pink Sheet trading the average stock closed at $0.48. For large stocks,

the divergence is even higher, with prices dropping from 0.57 to 0.16. Focusing only on stocks

not delisted for bankruptcy, we find a price drop from $1.09 to 0.59.46 The size and magnitude

of these effects suggest both that the delisting event was not anticipated by the market, and that it

is a traumatic event for the stock and its investors. Essentially, being “evicted” reduces the

stock’s value by almost one-half.47 We caution that, as noted earlier, specific welfare

comparisons across individual stocks are problematic due to the different timing of the actual

delisting and subsequent Pink Sheet trading.



46
   For the bankrupt sample, the drop is from 0.70 to 0.28. Recall that the average stock in our bankrupt sample filed
for bankruptcy more than 100 days before their delisting.
47
   Note that these price effects may include direct effects due to the liquidity effects of losing access to the NYSE
trading platform, and indirect effects due to the revised beliefs that the company’s future prospects were too bleak
for the NYSE to continue listing.
                                                                                                    25


        These deleterious effects are even more evident from the spread data. Figure 3 depicts

average percentage spreads for the 60 day period before delisting and the 60 day period after

Pink Sheet trading begins. For the sample as a whole, percentage spreads increased from an

average of 5.889% in the pre-period to 16.939% in the post-period. Focusing on a five-day pre

and post-window, spreads widened from 7.414% to a stunning 26.687%. The spread behavior

for the 9 large stocks is also greatly affected, doubling in the 60 day pre-and-post window (from

3.62% to 6.80%), but increasing by a factor of 4 in the five day window (1.75% to 8.17%). As

indicated in Table 7, all of these changes are statistically significant.

        Figure 4 provides the corresponding average dollar spread data for the sample. For the

sample as a whole, the average dollar spread increases from .055 to .086 in the 60 day intervals,

and from .05 to .113 in the 5 day intervals. What is more intriguing is the behavior of the large

stock average dollar spread. This spread actually falls from .023 to .0065 when measured across

the combined 120-day interval, and it drops from .02 to .009 when measured across the

combined 10-day interval. That average dollar spreads are lower in the Pink Sheets than they

were on the NYSE for these large stocks is an intriguing, and unexpected, finding.

        To investigate this result further, we plotted in Figure 5 the average dollar spread and the

average stock price over the combined 120 trading days for the 9 large firm sample. The graph

clearly shows the dramatic price decline preceding the stock’s delisting. And the data reconcile

the higher percentage spread/lower dollar spread behavior in the after market by showing that

prices have declined to very low levels. But what remains a puzzle are the spreads on the NYSE

in the pre-delisting period. Here we find that despite the dramatic fall in price, spreads remain

virtually constant at around .02 per share, and only drop when the stock shifts to trading on the

Pink Sheets.
                                                                                                                         26


         One conjecture for this behavior is that the spreads reflect a higher fixed cost of market

making on the NYSE. Evidence in support of this conjecture can be found in the data on volume

and volatility. A basic insight in market microstructure models (see O’Hara [1995]) is that bid-

asked spreads generally decrease as trading volume goes up and increase as price volatility goes

up. Figures 6 and 7 clearly show that volume decreases when stocks move to the Pink Sheets,

and volatility more than doubles for the sample as a whole. Thus, the anomalous NYSE spread

behavior is not explained by natural properties of the order flow, as the volume and volatility

effects would be expected to increase, not decrease, dollar spreads.

         These findings, in turn, suggest two things about the NYSE trading environment. First,

the data show the important role played by the penny pricing increment in use at the NYSE. The

NYSE does not permit price quotes at the sub-penny level, dictating that spreads also cannot be

less than one cent. The Pink Sheets allows sub-penny pricing, and the dramatic drop in spreads

for the largest stocks to approximately one-half cent reflects this greater price flexibility.48

Second, the data suggests that the Exchange specialist’s “affirmative obligation” to maintain a

high quality, continuous two-sided market for listed stocks actually does cause specialists to

behave differently than they would in the absence of such obligations.49 In particular, our data


48
   Taking Enron as an example, in the 60 day period before its delisting there is never a sub-penny quote, and
spreads fluctuate between 1 and 2 cents. Upon moving to the Pink Sheets, spreads in the first week are
approximately ½ cent.
49
   Specialists are expected to stabilize stock price movements by buying for and selling from their dealer accounts
against the prevailing trend of the market, i.e., to purchase on minus and zero minus ticks, and sell on plus and zero
plus ticks. For a discussion of the specialist’s obligations see Stoll [1998]. The Exchange currently uses several
programs to measure specialist performance including (1) specialist capital utilization, which focuses on a specialist
unit's use of its own capital in relation to the total dollar volume of trading activity in the he unit'
                                                                                                       s stocks; (2) the so-
called "near neighbor" approach which compares the performance in a stock over "rolling" three-month periods to
the performance of stocks with similar trading characteristics; and (3) the standards of acceptable performance
specified in Rule 103A. Information on these measures is supplied to the Allocation Committee for its use in
determining the allocation of listing companies. Stocks are allocated to specialists by the NYSE Allocation
Committee. NYSE Information Memo 97-55. Listing firms are not permitted to choose their specialists, and the
allocation committee looks, among other things, at the distribution of high volume and low volume stocks among
the specialist firm’s current portfolio of stocks when making its decision about which specialist firm should receive
a new allocation.
                                                                                                                27


are consistent with a cross-subsidization effect in which stocks with higher trading volumes

subsidize stocks that trade relatively infrequently. The dramatic deterioration of liquidity for the

smaller, less traded stocks in our sample is consistent with this effect. Our finding here

reinforces recent findings of Huang and Liu [2003] who demonstrate similar subsidization

behavior using data from individual specialist firms.

         Returning to the volume and volatility data, we see some intriguing patterns in the data.

The distribution of volume is relatively stable in the period before and after delisting, with the

exception of a spike approximately 30 days prior to delisting. This spike is largely due to

Enron’s bankruptcy filing. Overall, volumes increase when stocks move to the Pink Sheets,

possibly due to portfolio rebalancing of institutional investors unable to retain unlisted securities

in their portfolios. Volatility increases dramatically, with closing price volatility more than twice

as high, and volatility measured from closing bid prices on the order of 60% higher (0.1069 to

0.1623).50

         One final issue we consider in our analysis is the differential behavior of firms delisted

because of bankruptcy. Panel B of Table 7 gives the relevant data for the 60 day pre and post

delisting periods for the 20 delisted bankrupt stocks and the 35 delisted non-bankrupt stocks.

The data from the bankrupt sample suggest dramatic differences between trading on the NYSE

and trading on the Pink Sheets. Overall, trading costs deteriorate, with dollar spreads doubling

and percentage spreads more than tripling for bankrupt firms. We tested for whether differences

in dollar spreads moving from the NYSE to the Pink Sheets are different depending upon

whether the stock is bankrupt or not. We were unable to reject the hypotheses that the two




50
  Closing trade prices are subject to bid/ask bounce. Measuring volatility by spread mid-points results in an
increase from 0.1010 to 0.1445.
                                                                                                            28


groups were the same.51 This lack of statistical inference may be due to our relatively small

sample size, but it may also reflect that the bankrupt sample has typically been trading for many

months before their actual delisting.

        Perhaps more intriguing are the volume effects, with trade executions for the bankrupt

sample falling from almost 5 million shares a day to just over 2 million shares a day on the Pink

Sheets. Conversely, volume is little affected for the non-bankrupt sample, with no statistically

significant difference in trading before and after delisting occurs. One explanation for these

divergent effects is simply size. As shown in Table 4, the bankrupt firms include a

preponderance of the largest firms in our sample, and comparison of the bankrupt and large firm

samples in Table 7 reveals very similar behavior.

        Overall, the data provide compelling evidence that moving from the NYSE to the Pink

Sheets imposes large costs on traders. Moreover, the large volumes that transact for at least the

larger stocks suggest that the Exchange loses valuable trading opportunities as well. Having

established these costs, we turn in the next section to the questions of who benefits from delisting

and whether the current delisting process is optimal.



IV.       The Delisting Dilemmas: Why and How?

        Given the substantial costs associated with delisting, what then is the rationale for

continuing this practice? To address this query we need to consider who benefits from delisting

stocks. The analysis above suggests that it is not the firms whose stocks are delisted, nor is it

their shareholders. By virtually every metric, moving from being Exchange-listed to trading on

the Pink Sheets is “hazardous to your wealth”. But there other constituencies to consider, most

51
  Panchapegesan and Werner [2004] do report statistically different results for bankrupt firms delisted on the
Nasdaq who move to the OTCBB, but they provide no data on the time delay between the bankruptcy filing and the
subsequent delisting
                                                                                                   29


notably the exchange itself, the general trading public, and even the overall capital market: Does

anyone actually benefit from delisting stocks?

        Certainly, for very infrequently traded stocks, the exchange benefits from delisting. As

we have seen, some firms, particularly the very small ones, trade infrequently both on the NYSE

and on the Pink Sheets. The deterioration of spreads upon moving to the Pink Sheets is

consistent with these firms being expensive to trade, suggesting that the NYSE’s practice of

delisting these firms is motivated by economic grounds.

        What is less clear is the argument that delisting benefits exchanges because it upholds the

signaling value attached to an exchange listing. Here the relation between listing and delisting

comes into play. Over the past decade, exchanges in general, and the Nasdaq in particular,

actively sought new listings as a means to generate greater revenue for the exchange. Fama and

French [2004] argue that the lowering of listing standards is one explanation for the sharp rise in

firm mortality as lower quality firms were allowed access to the capital markets. Delisting such

lower quality firms is one way for exchanges to remove such listing “mistakes”, but it does so by

shifting the costs of poor exchange decision-making to investors. A more efficacious approach

would be to tighten listing standards, and then provide the liquidity firms need to support the

efficient trading of their stock.

        Is delisting needed to protect potential investors? The argument here relies on the notion

that investors draw inferences from, and indeed make trading decisions based on, the very fact

that a firm is listed on a particular exchange. Thus, exchanges must ensure that only firms

meeting the standards of the exchange are traded there, otherwise investors are misled. While

plausible on some dimensions (delisting in the cases of company fraud, for example), there

appear to us to be two problems with this argument more generally. First, it is just not clear how
                                                                                                              30


important the listing venue is for individual traders: would more people really be willing to

invest in Intel if it were listed on the NYSE than on the Nasdaq? Second, and perhaps more to

the point, if investor protection is really the rationale for delisting, why do exchanges allow firms

that fail the listing requirements to remain trading for months and months? Our data in Table 5

show little consistency in delisting application, and the Nasdaq has a similar track record when it

comes to delisting stocks whose price falls below the mandated $1.00 level. Perhaps part of

Nasdaq’s reluctance to delist such low-priced firms is due to their prevalence; after the bursting

of the “dot.com bubble” in the Summer of 1998, as many as 10 percent of all Nasdaq stocks were

failing this requirement.52

        Finally, is delisting needed to support the exchange’s regulatory responsibilities?

Certainly, in cases such as fraud the exchange should expeditiously remove errant firms. But the

data provide little evidence that this ever actually happens, with delisting instead occurring only

after months of firms being in violation of exchange rules and practices. Moreover, as noted

earlier, delisting for corporate governance short-comings rarely, if ever, happens. Delisting as

either a corporate sanction or a deterrent, therefore, appears to be at best inefficient, and at worst

ineffective.

        We believe this ambivalence of the part of the exchange to enforce their delisting rules is

well-founded. The current delisting rules reflect traditions from eras past, when information on

firms was less available, and rules-of-thumb were appropriate tools for decision-making. The

provision that a firm delist when its share price falls below $1, for example, now seems

particularly pointless because it is predicated on share price rather than market capitalization.




52
  Aaron Lucchetti, “Tough Rules, Bear Market Throw Stocks Off Nasdaq,” The Wall Street Journal, October 12,
2003, at C1.
                                                                                                                    31


Unfortunately, the $1.00 rule is not harmless, as it also triggers a number of other market and

regulatory responses that tend to depress stock prices.53

         What then is the “right” way to handle delisting? We offer three alternatives for

consideration. First, we advocate a compromise between the “death penalty” of delisting from

the NYSE and the alternative of simply continuing with a listing. Where a specialist wishes to

continue to trade and to provide market-making services in a stock that fails to meet the NYSE’s

continued listing criteria, the firm’s shares could be given a new ticker-symbol designation,

perhaps an X appended to the old designation, in order to signal to potential investors and other

market participants that the firm no longer qualifies for listing. Bushee and Leuz [2003] report

that such an appended symbol was used on the OTCBB to indicate firms that had not yet come

into compliance with new SEC mandated disclosure rules.

         This compromise implicitly recognizes the “bargain” made by listing firms and the

exchange when the listing decision was made in better times. Now that the firm is facing

adverse times, the shareholders need for a trading venue is perhaps even more important;

continued trading on the exchange, even as an “unlisted” security, provides this benefit. We

suggest that this compromise position would actually improve the quality of the signal provided

by delisting. Firms that commit fraud, or otherwise present dangers to current or future investors

could, and should, still be formally delisted. But viable firms simply undergoing temporary
53
  The regulatory odds are stacked heavily against firms as their share price drops below the $5 and the $1 per share
thresholds. The Securities and Exchange Commission has especially strict "suitability" rules designed to discourage
inexperienced investors from buying so-called “penny stocks” whose price is below $1 per share. The Securities
Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 provides additional powers to the Securities and Exchange
Commission to police penny stocks, makes it easier for litigants to prove that such stocks have been manipulated,
and imposes added requirements on brokers and market-makers in penny stocks (for more discussion of this Act see
Beatty and Kadiyala [2003]). Brokerage firms typically don’t follow penny stocks. For example, at Merrill Lynch,
the largest retail brokerage, brokers are prohibited from recommending shares that aren'  t rated by the firm'
                                                                                                             s research
analysts. With regard to non-regulatory responses, analysts generally don' t rate penny stocks. Even Internet message
boards discourage discussions related to penny stocks. For example, the Motley Fool does not allow discussion of
stocks unless they have traded over $5 per share for the past 30 consecutive days. Of course, these market reactions
are linked to the regulatory responses: when companies’ shares are delisted, it becomes more difficult to obtain
information about them, so trading becomes more costly for market participants.
                                                                                                    32


business set-backs should not be expelled from exchange or market trading merely because they

fail to meet some arbitrary rule such as the $1 minimum bid requirement.

           Second, there needs to be a more formal market for firms who do not, or can not, remain

on their original trading venues. The current free-fall for firms to a trading venue featuring no

listing standards, no corporate governance requirements, and no market regulation is hardly

satisfactory. Here, the Nasdaq market seemed to be evolving towards a solution, with delisting

from the Nasdaq National Market resulting in relegation to the Nasdaq Over-the-Counter

Bulletin Board (OTCBB), which, at one point, was scheduled to be replaced by an even more

attractive alternative, the Nasdaq Bulletin Board Exchange (BBX). However, the competitive

difficulties of the now publicly-traded Nasdaq market have caused a retrenchment in Nasdaq’s

plans, and the BBX has been scrapped, at least for the time being.

           Other alternatives that might fill this gap are the new ArcaBB, an alternative trading

system owned by Archipelago, and the Alternative Display Facility (ADF) run by the NASD.

But ArcaBB, formerly known as GlobeNet, has not flourished thus far, and the ADF is still

mired in the political controversy surrounding SuperMontage and its competition with the ECNs.

It seems unlikely that these alternatives will evolve into a market for delisting securities any time

soon. This inertia suggests that the current market structure may characterize unlisted stock

trading for some time to come.

           A final issue we raise for consideration is who should make the delisting decision. While

listing and delisting have traditionally been the purview of individual exchanges, there is now a

reconsideration of this issue world-wide, prompted in part by the conversions of exchanges from

being cooperative enterprises to corporate entities.54 In both the United Kingdom and Germany,

the ability to list and delist securities has been moved from the exchange to the regulator. This
54
     For an analysis of exchange conversions see Mendiola and O’Hara [2003].
                                                                                                                 33


shift reflects concerns that the incentives of profit-seeking exchanges may not be congruent with

the overall interests of the capital markets.55 Our arguments developed here would support the

argument that exchanges may not be adequately weighing the costs and benefits of delisting.

        Delisting is a traumatic event for both firms and shareholders alike. As we have shown

in this paper, the rationale for delisting is questionable, but the deleterious effects are not. The

SEC is currently considering a number of trading practices in the U.S. markets that have been

typically left to the discretion of markets, including the dual-listing of stocks, the self—

regulation of markets, and the corporate governance of exchanges. We suggest that the delisting

of stocks is another area where greater policy analysis is needed.




55
  Baglole [2004] argues that exchanges may in fact have too little incentive to delist given the dependence of
exchange revenue streams on listing fees. The recent decision by Hong Kong’s Financial Secretary to leave
delisting power with the Hong Kong Exchange was justified by noting “We are under no pressure to please any
party”.
                                                                                               34


                                             References
Baglole, J., 2004, “Lowering the Bar”, Far Eastern Economic Review, 38-40.

Beatty, R. and P. Kadiyala, 2003, “Impact of the Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 on the Initial
Public Offering Market,” Journal of Law and Economics, 47, 517-541.

Bushee, B. J. and C. Leuz, 2003, “Economic Consequences of SEC Disclosure Regulation,”
Working Paper, Wharton School.

Fama, E. F. and K. R. French, 2004, “New Lists: Fundamentals and survival rates,” Journal of
Financial Economics, forthcoming.

Huang, R. and J. W. Liu, 2003, “Do Individual NYSE Specialists Subsidize Illiquid Stocks?”
Working Paper, Notre Dame University.

Hwang, C. Y., 1995, Microstructure and Reverse Splits, Review of Quantitative Finance and
Accounting, 5, 169-177.

Lewis, C. M., Seward, J. K., and L. Foster-Johnson, 2000, “Busted IPOs and Windows of
Misopportunity,” Working Paper 00-06, Tuck School of Business Administration, Dartmouth
College.

Lie, E., Lie, H., and J.J. McConnell, 2001, “Debt-reducing exchange offers,” Journal of
Corporate Finance, 7, 179-207.

Macey, J. and H. Kanda, 1990, “The Stock Exchange as a Firm: The Emergence of Close
Substitutes For the New York and Tokyo Stock Exchanges,” 75 Cornell Law Review, 1007.

Macey, J. and M. O’Hara, 1999, “Regulating Exchanges and Alternative Trading Systems: A
Law and Economics Perspective,” 28 Journal of Legal Studies 17.

Macey, J. and M. O’Hara, 1999b,“Globalization, Exchange Governance, and the Future of
Exchanges,” in Brookings Wharton Papers on Financial Services – 1999, (R. Litan and A.
Santomero, eds.).

Macey, J. and M. O’Hara, 2002, The Economics of Stock Exchange Listing Fees and Listing
Requirements” 11 Journal of Financial Intermediation 297.

Mendiola, A. and M. O’Hara, 2003, Taking Stock in Stock Markets: The Changing Governance
of Exchanges, Working paper, Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University.

Panchapagesan, V. and I. M. Werner, 2004, “From Pink Slips to Pink Sheets: Market Quality
Around Delisting from Nasdaq”, Working Paper, Olin School, Washington University – St.
Louis.
                                                                                              35


Sanger, G. C. and J. D. Peterson, 1990, “An Empirical Analysis of Common Stock Delistings,”
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 25(2).

Seguin, P. J., and M. M. Smoller, 1997, “Share price and mortality: An Empirical evaluation of
newly listed Nasdaq stocks,” Journal of Financial Economics, 45, 333-363.

Shumway, T., 1997, “The Delisting Bias in CRSP Data,” Journal of Finance, 52(1), 327-340.

Shumway, T., and V.A. Warther, 1999, “The Delisting Bias in CRSP’s Nasdaq Data and Its
Implications for the Size Effect,” Journal of Finance, 54(6), 2351-2379.

Stoll, H., 1998, “Reconsidering the affirmative obligation of market makers,” Financial Analysts
Journal, 54(5).

Woolridge, J.R., and D. R. Chambers, 1983, Reverse Splits and Shareholder Wealth, Financial
Management, 5-15.
                                                                                           36


                                          Table 1
               Delistings from U.S. Stock Exchanges and Markets 1995- 2002

This table gives the number of firms delisting in each year from the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE), the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), and the Nasdaq market. These numbers
include both voluntary and involuntary delistings. The data are taken from the NYSE Fact Book;
NYSE delisting announcements on web site; the Nasdaq web site; and from data provided by the
AMEX Research Department.

                     YEAR          NYSE      Nasdaq     AMEX       Annual
                      2002          145        569        33         747
                      2001          213        665       125        1003
                      2000          286        475        73         834
                      1999          254        873       104        1231
                      1998          209       769        101        1079
                      1997          183       688        112        983
                      1996          105       557        87         749
                      1995          102       547        77         726
                   Total period    1497       5143       712        7352
                                                                                              37




                                         Table 2
                       Voluntary and Regulatory Delistings 1998-2002

This table gives the total number of firms delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and the
Nasdaq market for the years 1998-2002. Voluntary delistings are those instigated by the firm
and arise for reasons such as mergers or a firm’s decision to move to another exchange or to go
private. Regulatory delistings are instigated by the exchange or market when a firm is in
violation of the listing requirements. Data are taken from the NYSE web site and the Nasdaq
web site.

                                        1998          1999 2000 2001 2002
                New York Stock Exchange
                Total Delistings        209           254    286    213    145
                Voluntary               180           204    225    148    82
                Regulatory              29            50     61     65     63

                Nasdaq Market
                Total Delistings               769    873    475    665    569
                Voluntary                      280    433    235    275    289
                Regulatory                     489    440    240    390    280
                                                                                                             38



                                              Table 3
                                   Causes of Delisting 1999-2002

Panel A. Regulatory Delistings from the New York Stock Exchange
This table gives data on reasons cited for firms delisting from the NYSE. Regulatory delistings
often are for violations of several standards, so the total number of causes exceeds the total
number of firms delisted in a given year. Data are from the NYSE delisting announcements.

                                                                   Total 1999 2000 2001 2002
   NYSE Regualtory Delistings                                       239    50   61   65   63

   Reasons Stated for Delisting:
   Price below minimum                                              123          6        28     46     43
   Market cap below minimum                                         163         25        44     50     44
   Bankruptcy                                                        73         13        19     19     22
   Delinquent in SEC filings                                          8          3         1      3      1
   Net Tangible Assets / Net Income below minimum                    21         21         0      0      0
   Other                                                             11          3         2      2      4

The Other category for NYSE delistings includes reasons such as: accounting irregularities,
going concern emphasis by auditors, and company under investigation by SEC for misstatements.


Panel B. Regulatory Delistings from the Nasdaq Market
This table gives data on reasons cited for firms delisting from the Nasdaq market. Regulatory
delistings often are for violations of several standards, so the total number of causes exceeds the
total number of firms delisted in a given year. Data are from the Nasdaq delisting announcements.

                                                              Total   1999 2000 2001 2002
    Nasdaq Regulatory Delistings                              1350     440  240  390  280

    Reasons Stated for Delisting:
    Price below minimum                                         681       257        97        218    109
    Market cap below minimum                                     15         0         4          3      8
    Bankruptcy / Liquidation                                    194        31        36         79     48
    Delinquent in SEC filings                                   156        40        31         53     32
    Net Tangible Assets / Net Income below minimum              556       190        95        138    133
    Market Float / Insufficient shares held by public           178        93        31         54      0
    Public Interest                                             145        28        29         71     17
    Insufficient number of market makers                         78        40        15         23      0
    Other                                                       128        57        26         34     11

The Other category for Nasdaq delistings includes: failure to provide requested information,
failure to comply with qualifications and violations of reverse merger requirements.
                                                                                                                      39


                                        Table 4
  Sample stocks delisted from NYSE in 2002: Market capitalization and Delisting Causes

                                               Market                    NYSE stated reasons for Delisting:
                                         capitalization
                                    at beginning 2001      Share Price     Market cap
Com pany                                   ($ m illions) below m inim um below m inim um    Bankruptcy        Other

Enron Corp                                     61,422         •                                   •
Global Crossing                                12,991         •                                   •
NTL                                             6,505         •                 •
Conseco                                         4,290         •                                   •
US Airw ays Group                               2,719                                             •
Comdisco                                        1,742         •                                   •
APW                                             1,323         •                 •
New Pow er Holdings                             1,214         •                                                 •
Viasystems Group                                1,112         •                 •
Williams Communications Group                     802         •                                   •
Key3Media Group                                   792         •
Covanta Energy Corporation                        763         •                                   •
Mutual Risk Management                            626         •                                                 •
EOTT Energy Partners                              450         •                                   •
Asia Global Crossing                              446         •                                   •
GenTek                                            335                           •
A.C.L.N.                                          330                                                           •
Encompass Services Corporation                    320         •                 •
Kaiser Aluminum Corporation                       293         •                 •                 •
Bethlehem Steel Corporation                       231         •                                   •
Cornerstone Propane Partners                      200         •                 •                 •
Exide Technologies                                194         •                 •
Polymer Group                                     172         •                 •                 •
Federal-Mogul Corporation                         163         •                                   •
Magellan Health Services                          143         •                 •
London Pacific Group                              142         •                 •                 •
Coastcast Corporation                             129                           •
PlanVista Corporation                             127                           •
Grubb & Ellis Company                             119                           •
Armstrong Holdings                                 84                                             •
Acceptance Insurance Companies                     75         •                 •
Budget Group                                       75         •                 •
BNS Co.                                            65                           •
The FINOVA Group                                   61         •                 •                 •
GAINSCO Inc                                        55         •                 •
Airlease Ltd                                       55                           •
LASER Mortgage Management                          48                                                           •
Chart House Enterprises                            47         •                 •
National Equipment Services                        45         •                 •
Ow ens Corning                                     45         •                 •                 •
J Net Enterprises                                  45                           •
Personnel Group of America                         44         •                 •
Superior TeleCom                                   41         •                 •
Guilford Mills                                     31         •                 •
The Alpine Group                                   30                           •
Galey & Lord                                       30         •                 •
Philips International Realty Corp                  30                           •                               •
Clarion Commercial Holdings                        29                           •
Oakw ood Homes Corporation                         29         •                 •                 •
National Steel Corporation                         23                           •                 •
American Skiing Company                            23         •                 •
Atchison Casting Corporation                       22         •                 •
China Enterprises                                  15         •                 •
Insteel Industries                                 15         •                 •
Asia Pacific Wire & Cable Corp                     15         •                 •


The table displays the name, market capitalization and reasons given by the NYSE for delisting each of the 55 firms
in the sample of stocks that were delisted from NYSE and subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. The Other category
includes failed merger arrangement (NewPower Holdings), planned liquidations (LASER Mortgage Management
and Philips International Realty) and NYSE concerns about the adequacy of information disclosed by the company
(both A.C.L.N. Ltd and Mutual Risk Management). The sample of 55 stocks is subdivided into three samples based
on market capitalization at the beginning of 2001. The largest subsample comprises 9 stocks, each with market
capitalization in excess of $1 billion. The middle group contains 20 stocks with market capitalizations between $100
million and $1 billion. The remaining 26 stocks make up the third subsample with market capitalizations less than
$100 million. Market capitalization is calculated as the number of shares outstanding multiplied by the closing share
price.
                                                                                                                     40


                                              Table 5
                      Sample Firms Delisted for Minimum Share Price Reasons

The Table shows the number of trading days prior to the last day of trade on NYSE that the stock is in violation of
the share price rules. A stock violates the NYSE 30 day average price rule if its average daily closing share price
calculated over the preceding 30 days is below $1. The left column shows the number of continuous trading days
prior to the stock’s last day of trade on NYSE that the stock is in violation of the 30 day average price rule. An entry
of “Not in violation” indicates that the stock’s 30 day average share price calculated on the date of last trade on
NYSE was not less than $1. The right column shows the number of continuous trading days prior to the stock’s last
day of trade on NYSE that the stock had a price less than $1.

                                                       Continuous trading days          Continuous trading days
                                                      in violation of 30 day rule        with price less than $1
    Companies cited for share price violations          prior to last day NYSE          prior to last day NYSE
Enron Corp                                                           3                              25
Global Crossing                                                     14                              32
NTL                                                                 49                              59
Conseco                                                     not in violation                        12
Comdisco                                                           140                              63
APW                                                                 35                              52
NewPower Holdings                                                   62                              78
Viasystems Group                                                    91                             104
Williams Communications Group                               not in violation                        17
Key3Media Group                                                     25                              41
Covanta Energy Corporation                                           7                               8
Mutual Risk Management                                               1                              17
EOTT Energy Partners                                        not in violation                         2
Asia Global Crossing                                                21                              34
Encompass Services Corporation                                      73                              88
Kaiser Aluminum Corporation                                         29                              42
Bethlehem Steel Corporation                                        154                             163
Cornerstone Propane Partners                                         6                              17
Exide Technologies                                                   7                              24
Polymer Group                                                      102                             124
Federal-Mogul Corporation                                           31                              45
Magellan Health Services                                            19                              40
London Pacific Group                                        not in violation                         1
Acceptance Insurance Companies                              not in violation                        10
Budget Group                                                        81                              92
The FINOVA Group                                                    47                              57
GAINSCO Inc                                                         29                              45
Chart House Enterprises                                             67                              89
National Equipment Services                                         29                              40
Owens Corning                                                       23                              11
Personnel Group of America                                          90                             107
Superior TeleCom                                                    96                              63
Guilford Mills                                                      86                             103
Galey & Lord                                                        74                              77
Oakwood Homes Corporation                                            9                              29
American Skiing Company                                             93                              82
Atchison Casting Corporation                                        17                              33
China Enterprises                                                   29                              35
Insteel Industries                                                  83                             84
Asia Pacific Wire & Cable Corp                                     200                             215
                                                                                                                       41


                                                   Table 6
                                          Trading on the Pink Sheets
Panel A: Sample of 55 stocks
                                                         Mean         Median     Minimum Maximum
Volume (number of shares) on Day 1                   2,211,053        74,300          100 53,341,600
Value of trade ($) on Day 1                            508,595        11,000           65 16,269,188
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,5]                  544,661        40,350          433 13,061,038
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,20]                 312,078        38,482          244 7,235,380
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,60]                 165,676        23,374          407 3,407,113
Percentage Spread (%) on Day1                            40.04         25.00         0.84     177.36
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,5]                       26.69         15.27         1.27     152.08
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,20]                      20.51         13.11         1.13     123.25
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,60]                      16.94         11.53         1.68     104.12

Panel B: Subsample of largest 9 stocks
Volume (number of shares) on Day 1                  10,752,278     1,330,900        31,100 53,341,600
Value of trade ($) on Day 1                          2,570,376       187,904           622 16,269,188
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,5]                2,500,577       803,951        28,838 13,061,038
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,20]               1,427,130       906,552        28,802 7,235,380
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,60]                 702,331       410,549        13,388 3,407,113
Percentage Spread (%) on Day1                            20.84          2.47          0.84     133.33
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,5]                        8.17          2.44          1.27      38.92
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,20]                       6.59          4.05          1.13      18.89
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,60]                       6.80          5.84          1.68      15.98

Panel C: Subsample of middle 20 stocks
Volume (number of shares) on Day 1                   1,093,365       292,300           200    6,131,800
Value of trade ($) on Day 1                            192,574        26,615           230    1,141,770
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,5]                  279,354        51,567         1,219    2,566,996
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,20]                 158,045        61,568         3,055    1,234,454
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,60]                  93,927        33,494         5,144      605,362
Percentage Spread (%) on Day1                            30.25         19.09          3.39       107.69
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,5]                       20.46         12.76          2.72        71.25
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,20]                      21.00         11.41          2.25       118.31
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,60]                      17.49         13.60          2.42        88.82

Panel D: Subsample of smallest 26 stocks
Volume (number of shares) on Day 1                     114,235        12,950            100   1,085,600
Value of trade ($) on Day 1                             37,994         3,268             65     488,520
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,5]                   71,696        15,733            433     364,009
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,20]                  44,585        12,361            244     277,105
Mean daily Value of trade, Days [1,60]                  35,103        10,152            407     230,510
Percentage Spread (%) on Day1                            54.22         38.81           5.13      177.36
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,5]                       37.88         26.50           3.52      152.08
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,20]                      24.95         14.96           3.75      123.25
Mean percentage spread, Days [1,60]                      20.02         14.93           3.94      104.12

The table displays summary trading data from Pink Sheets on a sample 55 stocks (Panel A) that were delisted from
NYSE and subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. The sample of 55 stocks is divided into three subsamples based on
market capitalization at the beginning of 2001. Panel B displays data on the largest 9 stocks being those firms with
market capitalizations in excess of $1 billion. Panel C displays the subsample of 20 stocks with market
capitalizations between $100 million and $1 billion. Panel D shows the remaining 26 stocks which have market
capitalizations less than $100 million. Day 1 refers to the first day of trade on Pink Sheets. Day [1,t] denotes the first
t days of trade on Pink Sheets. Value of trade is defined as volume × closing share price. Percentage spreads are
calculated as (closing ask price –closing bid price) / (midpoint of closing ask and bid prices)×100. Mean daily Value
of trade, Days [1,t], for instance, is the mean over time of the daily Value of trade from Day 1 through to Day t.
                                                                                                                  42


                                              Table 7
                    Before and After Delisting Trading: NYSE and Pink Sheets
Panel A
                                                                  Average closing share price Average closing share price
                                                                  on last trading day -NYSE on first trading day –Pink Sheets
Sample of 55 stocks                                                           0.95                        0.57
Sample of largest 9 stocks                                                    0.48                        0.16
Sample of 20 bankrupt stocks                                                  0.70                        0.28
Sample of 35 non-bankrupt stocks                                              1.09                        0.59

Panel B                                       NYSE days [-60,-1] Pink Sheets days [1,60]            t-statistic         p-value

Sample of 55 stocks
Mean dollar spread ($)                                     0.0551                    0.0865            -10.57           < 0.0001
Mean percentage spread (%)                                  5.889                    16.939            -20.28           < 0.0001
Mean daily volume (number of shares)                    1,944,595                   908,190             5.374           < 0.0001
Mean volatility (closing prices)                           0.1037                    0.2111            -5.018           < 0.0001
Mean volatility (bid prices)                               0.1069                    0.1623            -3.386           < 0.0012

Sample of largest 9 stocks
Mean dollar spread ($)                                     0.0232                    0.0065            23.041           < 0.0001
Mean percentage spread (%)                                  3.621                     6.804            -9.212           < 0.0001
Mean daily volume (number of shares)                    9,806,144                 3,839,080             5.205           < 0.0001

Sample of 20 bankrupt stocks
Mean dollar spread ($)                                     0.0360                    0.0607           -10.384           < 0.0001
Mean percentage spread (%)                                  3.634                    12.971           -20.393           < 0.0001
Mean daily volume (number of shares)                    4,945,943                 2,012,476             5.682           < 0.0001

Sample of 35 non-bankrupt stocks
Mean dollar spread ($)                                     0.0660                    0.1013            -7.937           < 0.0001
Mean percentage spread (%)                                  7.178                    19.206            -16.65           < 0.0001
Mean daily volume (number of shares)                      229,540                   277,170            -1.701              0.093

Panel C                                        NYSE days [-5,-1] Pink Sheets days [1,5]             t-statistic         p-value

Sample of 55 stocks
Mean dollar spread ($)                                      0.050                     0.113            -4.691            0.0080
Mean percentage spread (%)                                  7.414                    26.687             -5.47            0.0053
Mean daily volume (number of shares)                    1,552,799                 2,674,674            -3.059            0.0201
Mean volatility                                            0.1285                    0.3879            -1.859            0.1361

Sample of largest 9 stocks
Mean dollar spread ($)                                     0.0207                    0.0090             4.803            0.0014
Mean percentage spread (%)                                  1.759                     8.172            -2.013            0.1142
Mean daily volume (number of shares)                    3,849,409                11,991,158            -5.960            0.0017

The table displays information about a sample of 55 stocks that were delisted from the NYSE in 2002 and
subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. Also shown are sub-sample data for: the largest 9 of those stocks, 20 bankrupt
stocks and the 35 non-bankrupt stocks. Panel A shows the average share price on the NYSE for the 55 stock sample
and the largest 9 stock sub-sample on the day before the NYSE delisting announcement date and on the first day of
trade on Pink Sheets. The average share price is calculated as an equally weighted average of the share prices of the
stocks comprising the sample. Panel B provides information on mean spreads, volume and volatility over a period of
60 days prior to the NYSE delisting announcement date and 60 days post listing on Pink Sheets. Dollar spreads are
defined as (closing ask price – closing bid price). Percentage spreads are calculated as (closing ask price –closing
bid price) / (midpoint of closing ask and bid prices)×100. Volatility for a given day is calculated as the standard
deviation of daily returns of the 56 stocks in the sample. Panel C provides information on the same variables in
Panel B except averages are taken over a period of 5 days before the NYSE delisting announcement date and 5 days
after listing on Pink Sheets. Difference of means tests are two-sided tests and assume unequal variances.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    43

                                                                                Figure 1
                                      Market capitalization at beginning of 2001 of sample of 55 stocks delisted from NYSE in 2002

                                      70,000




                                      60,000




                                      50,000




 Market capitalization ($ millions)
                                      40,000




                                      30,000




                                      20,000




                                      10,000




                                          0
                                               ENE
                                                           NLI                                                                                                                                                       GFD
                                                                                                                                                                                             CHT
                                                                                                   EOT
                                                                                                                          CNO         FMO
                                                                           NPW          KME                                                             PVC
                                                                                              MM                                            MGL                                                    NSV                           PHR   OH         FDY
                                                                                                                                                                          BNS                              J                                 NS
                                                                                                                                                  PAR                           GNA
                                                                 U   CDO                                            KLU         EX                            ACK                      FLY                                                              III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AWC
                                                                                                              ASW
                                                     GX   CNC        APW    VG   WCG   COV          AX   GK
                                                                                                              ESR    BS         PGI         LDP         GBE    AIF
                                                                                                                                                                     BD   FNV         LMM          OWC   PGA   SUT   AGI   GNL   CLR        SKI   CSH



The figure plots the market capitalization in millions of dollars as at beginning of 2001 of the sample of
55 stocks delisted from NYSE in 2002. Market capitalization is calculated as the number of shares
outstanding multiplied by the closing share price. Stocks are identified by their NYSE ticker symbols
along the horizontal axis. Refer also to Table 4.
                                                                                                             44


                                                        Figure 2
                                         The value of investment on Pink Sheets



                          160




                          140




                          120




 Value of Portfolio ($)
                          100




                          80




                          60




                          40




                          20




                           0
                                1   10      20                       30                     40     50   60

                                                             Day on Pinksheets
                                                 55 delisted stocks    Largest 9 delisted stocks




The figure plots the value over time of two equally weighted portfolios from the first day of trade
on Pink Sheets to day 60. One portfolio comprises all 55 stocks in the sample of stocks delisted
from NYSE in 2002 that went to Pink Sheets, the other comprises the largest 9 by market
capitalization of those 55 stocks. Portfolios are formed by an equal allocation of $100 at closing
prices on the first day of trade on Pink Sheets.
                                                                                                                                                        45


                                                                   Figure 3
                                              Average Percentage Spreads on NYSE and Pink Sheets
                                50



                                45



                                40



                                35




   Mean Percentage Spread (%)
                                30



                                25



                                20



                                15



                                10



                                5



                                0
                                 -60   -50   -40   -30          -20        -10       -1         1          10         20          30     40   50   60

                                                                                          Day
                                                         Largest 9 delisted stocks    Sample of 55 delisted stocks excluding largest 9




The graph plots the mean percentage spread over time of two samples of stocks that were
delisted from NYSE and subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. One sample comprises the largest 9
by market capitalization of a sample of 55 stocks delisted from NYSE in 2002 that went to Pink
Sheets, the other comprises 46 stocks being the sample of 55 stocks exlcuding the 9 largest
stocks. Days [-60,-1] denote the last 60 full days of NYSE trading prior to the NYSE delisting
announcement date. Days [1,60] refer to the first 60 days of trading on Pink Sheets. Percentage
spread is calculated as (closing ask price –closing bid price) / (midpoint of closing ask and bid
prices)×100.
                                                                                                                                                          46


                                                                     Figure 4
                                                  Average Dollar Spreads on NYSE and Pink Sheets

                            0.25




                            0.20




   Mean Dollar Spread ($)
                            0.15




                            0.10




                            0.05




                            0.00
                                -60   -50   -40      -30          -20         -10      -1         1         10          20         30      40   50   60

                                                                                            Day
                                                           Largest 9 delisted stocks    Sample of 55 delisted stocks excluding largest 9




The figure plots the mean dollar spread over time of two samples of stocks that were delisted
from NYSE and subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. One sample comprises the largest 9 by
market capitalization of the sample of 55 stocks delisted from NYSE in 2002 that went to Pink
Sheets, the other comprises 46 stocks being the sample of 55 stocks exlcuding the 9 largest
stocks. Days [-60,-1] denote the last 60 full days of NYSE trading prior to the NYSE delisting
announcement date. Days [1,60] refer to the first 60 days of trading on Pink Sheets. Dollar
spread is defined as (closing ask price – closing bid price).
                                                                                                                                                                          47


                                                             Figure 5
                            Average share price and Average Dollar spread of the largest 9 delisted stocks


                   6.00                                                                                                                   0.06




                   5.00                                                                                                                   0.05




                                                                                                                                                 Mean Dollar Spread ($)
                   4.00                                                                                                                   0.04




 Share Price ($)
                   3.00                                                                                                                   0.03




                   2.00                                                                                                                   0.02




                   1.00                                                                                                                   0.01




                   0.00                                                                                                                   0.00
                          -60   -50   -40   -30       -20       -10      -1           1     10        20        30         40   50   60

                                                                              Day
                                            Average Share Price of Largest 9 stocks       Dollar Spread Largest 9 stocks




The figure plots the mean dollar spread and average closing share price over time of the largest 9
stocks delisted from the NYSE in 2002 that subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. Days [-60,-1]
denote the last 60 full days of NYSE trading prior to the NYSE delisting announcement date.
Days [1,60] refer to the first 60 days of trading on Pink Sheets. The average share price is
calculated as an equally weighted average of the closing share prices of the 9 stocks in the
sample. Dollar spread is defined as (closing ask price – closing bid price).
                                                                                                                         48



                                                                   Figure 6
                                                   Volume of trade on NYSE and Pink Sheets

The graph shows the mean volume in millions of shares traded per day over time of a sample of
55 stocks delisted from NYSE in 2002 that subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. Days [-90,-1]
denote the last 90 full days of NYSE trading prior to the NYSE delisting announcement date.
Days [1,60] refer to the first 60 days of trading on Pink Sheets.

                       8




                       7




                       6




 Millions of shrares
                       5




                       4




                       3




                       2




                       1




                       0
                           -90   -80   -70   -60   -50   -40   -30   -20    -10   -1   1   10   20   30   40   50   60

                                                                           Day
                                                                                                  49


                                                       Figure 7
                                         Volatility on NYSE and Pink Sheets
              1.0



              0.9



              0.8



              0.7



              0.6




 Volatility
              0.5



              0.4



              0.3



              0.2



              0.1



              0.0
                 -60   -50   -40   -30   -20   -10   -1         1   10   20   30   40   50   60

                                                          Day


The graph plots volatility over time of a portfolio of 55 stocks that were delisted from NYSE in
2002 and subsequently traded on Pink Sheets. Volatility for a given day is calculated as the
standard deviation of daily returns of the 55 stocks comprising the portfolio. Returns are
calculated using closing prices. Days [-60,-1] denote the last 60 full days of NYSE trading prior
to the NYSE delisting announcement date. Days [1,60] denote the first 60 days of trading on
Pink Sheets. The first volatility estimate for Pink Sheets trading is on day 2.
