 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dumb money: Mutual fund flows and the cross-section of stock returns 
 
 
Andrea Frazzini 
Department of Economics, Yale University 
 
Owen A. Lamont  
Yale School of Management and NBER 
 
 
 
 
PRELIMINARY AND INCOMPLETE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This draft: March 27, 2005 
First draft: February 23, 2005 
 
 
 
 
JEL Classification: G14, G23, G32 
Key words: Mutual funds, individual investors 
 
 
We thank Nicholas Barberis and Judith Chevalier for helpful comments.  We thank Breno 
Schmidt for research assistance.  
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
We use mutual fund flows as a measure for individual investor sentiment for different stocks, 
and find that high sentiment predicts low future returns.  Fund flows are dumb money – by 
reallocating across different mutual funds, retail investors reduce their wealth in the long run.  
This dumb money effect is strongly positively related to the value effect.  High sentiment also is 
associated high corporate issuance, interpretable as companies increasing the supply of shares in 
response to investor demand.  Dumb money – Page 1 
 
Individual retail investors actively reallocate their money across different mutual funds.  
Individuals tend to transfer money from low performing funds to high performing funds.  In 
addition to looking at past returns of funds, individuals also may consider economic themes or 
investment styles in reallocating funds.  Collectively, one can measure individual sentiment by 
looking at which funds receive inflows and which receive outflows, and can relate this sentiment 
to different stocks by examining the holdings of mutual funds.  This paper tests whether 
sentiment affects stock prices, and specifically whether one can predict future stock returns using 
a flow-based measure of sentiment.  If sentiment pushes stock prices above fundamental value, 
high sentiment stocks should have low future returns. 
For example, in 1999 investors sent $36 billion to Janus funds but only $20 billion to 
Fidelity funds, despite the fact that Fidelity had more than three times the assets under 
management at the beginning of the year.  Thus in 1999 retail investors as a group made an 
active allocation decision to give greater weight to Janus funds, and in doing so they increased 
their portfolio weight in tech stocks held by Janus.  By 2001, investors had changed their minds 
about their allocations, and pulled about $12 billion out of Janus while adding $10 billion to 
Fidelity.  In this instance, the reallocation caused wealth destruction to mutual fund investors as 
Janus and tech stocks performed horribly after 1999. 
According to the “smart money” hypothesis of Gruber (1996) and Zheng (1999), some 
fund managers have skill and some individual investors can detect that skill, and send their 
money to skilled managers.  Thus (in contrast to the Janus example) flows should be positively 
correlated with future returns.  Gruber (1996) and Zheng (1999) show that the short term 
performance of funds that experience inflows is significantly better than those that experience 
outflows, suggesting that mutual fund investors have selection ability.1   Dumb money – Page 2 
 
Our focus is on stocks, not on funds.  We are interested in how investor sentiment affects 
stocks prices, and see fund flows as a convenient (and economically important) measure of 
sentiment.  To test whether investor sentiment causes mispricing, one must test whether high 
sentiment today predicts low return in the future, and we focus on cross-sectional stock return 
predictability over periods of months and years.  We ask the question of whether, over the long-
term, investors are earning higher returns as a result of their reallocation across funds.   
For each stock, we calculate the mutual fund ownership of the stock that is due to 
reallocation decisions reflected in fund flows.  For example, in December 1999, 17% of the 
shares outstanding of Cisco were owned by the mutual fund sector (using our sample of funds), 
of which 2.5% was attributable to disproportionately high inflows over the previous 3 years.  
That is, under certain assumptions, if flows had occurred proportionately to asset value (instead 
of disproportionately to funds like Janus), the level of mutual fund ownership would have been 
only 14.5%.  This 2.5% difference is our measure of investor sentiment.  We then test whether 
this measure predicts differential returns on stocks. 
Our main results are as follows.  First, as suggested the example of Janus and Cisco in 
1999, on average from 1980 to 2003, retail investors direct their money to funds which invest in 
stocks that have low future returns.  To achieve high returns, it is best to do the opposite of these 
investors.   We calculate that mutual fund investors experience total returns that are significantly 
lower due to their reallocations.  Therefore, mutual fund investors are dumb money in the sense 
that their reallocations reduce their wealth on average.   We call this predictability the “dumb 
money” effect.  This dumb money effect poses a challenge to rational theories of fund flows.   
Second, the dumb money effect is highly related to the value effect.  The returns on 
portfolios constructed using our flow-based measure of sentiment are quite positively correlated Dumb money – Page 3 
 
with the returns on portfolios constructed using market-book ratio.  Money flows into mutual 
funds that own growth stocks, and flows out of mutual funds that own value stocks.  This pattern 
poses a challenge to risk-based theories of the value effect, which would need to explain why 
one class of investors (individuals) is engaged in a complex dynamic trading strategy of selling 
“high risk” value stocks and buying “low risk” growth stocks.   
Third, demand by individuals and supply from firms are highly related.  When 
individuals indirectly buy more stock of a specific company (via mutual fund inflows), we also 
observe that company increasing the number of shares outstanding (for example, through 
seasoned equity offerings, stock-financed mergers, and other issuance mechanisms).  This 
pattern is consistent with the interpretation that individual investors are dumb, and smart firms 
are opportunistically exploiting their demand for shares. 
These results give a different perspective on the issue of individuals vs. institutions.  A 
large literature explores whether institutions have better average performance than individuals.  
In the case of mutual funds, for example, Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997) show 
that stocks held by mutual funds have higher returns, and Chen, Jegadeesh,  and Wermers (2000) 
show that stocks bought by mutual funds outperform stocks sold by mutual funds.  Both results 
suggest mutual fund managers have stock-picking skill. 
Unfortunately, since individuals ultimately control fund managers, it can be difficult to 
infer the views of fund managers by looking only at their holdings.  For example, when the 
manager of tech fund experiences large inflows, his job is to buy more technology stocks, even if 
he thinks the tech sector is overvalued.  So if we observe the mutual fund sector as a whole 
holding technology stocks, that does not imply that mutual managers as a whole believe tech 
stocks will outperform.  It is hard for a fund manager to be smarter than his clients.  Mutual fund Dumb money – Page 4 
 
holdings are driven by both managerial choices in picking stocks and retail investor choices in 
picking managers.  We provide some estimates of the relative importance of these two effects. 
This paper is organized as follows.  Section I reviews the literature.  Section II discusses 
the basic measure of sentiment and describes the data.  Section III presents regression results on 
the determinants of sentiment and the relation between sentiment and future returns.  Section IV 
uses calendar time portfolios to put the results in economic context, showing the magnitude of 
wealth destruction caused by flows, comparing the sentiment measure with other well-known 
strategies, and providing evidence on whether mutual fund managers have stock-picking skill. 
Section V presents conclusions. 
I. Background and literature review 
A. Determinants of fund flows 
A series of papers have documented a strong positive relation between mutual fund past 
performance and subsequent fund inflows (see, for example, Ippolito (1992), Chevalier and 
Ellison (1997), and Sirri and Tufano (1998)).  In addition, retail investors appear to allocate their 
wealth to funds that have caught their attention either thought marketing or advertising (see Jain 
and Wu (2000), and Barber, Odean and Zheng (2004)).  Benartzi and Thaler (2001) report 
evidence that retail investors employ simple rule-of–thumbs in allocating across different types 
of mutual funds. 
For individual stocks, the picture looks different.  Odean (1999), and Barber and Odean 
(2000, 2001, 2004) present extensive evidence that individual investors suffer from biased-self 
attribution, and tend be overconfident, thus engaging in (wealth-destroying) excessive trading.  
But in contrast to their return-chasing behavior in mutual funds, a variety of recent evidence 
suggests that individual investors act as contrarians when trading individual stocks (see Grinblatt Dumb money – Page 5 
 
and Keloharju (2000), Goetzmann and  Massa (2002)).   
While this apparent contradiction between return-chasing and contrarianism is 
interesting, the hypothesis we wish to test does not depend on resolving this issue.  We are 
interested in testing whether individual investor sentiment predicts future returns, so our 
hypothesis is not contingent on measuring whether investors are ultimately return-chasing or not.  
For example, if individual investor sentiment causes prices to be wrong and prices eventually 
revert to fundamental value, then sentiment should negatively predict future returns no matter 
what – whether individuals over-react or under-react, whether they return-chase or not.  As it 
turns out, in the data we study, mutual fund flows are indeed return-chasing, and flows tend to go 
to stocks that have gone up recently. 
B. Causal effects of flows on prices 
  There is evidence that fund flows have positively contemporaneous correlations with 
stock returns (see, for example, Brown et al (2002)).  Although it is difficult to infer causality 
from correlation, one interpretation of this fact is that inflows drive up stock prices.  We do not 
attempt to test this hypothesis with our data, for three reasons.  First, we are primarily interested 
in whether sentiment causes long-term mispricing, not the short term dynamics of precisely how 
trading affects prices.  Second, we observe flows and holdings and fairly low frequency 
(quarterly), so our data is not well suited to studying short-term price dynamics.  Third, although 
the fund flows we consider are certainly economically large, we view them as an imperfect 
measure of sentiment since individual investor sentiment can be manifested in many other ways.  
While individuals were sending mutual fund money to tech funds in 1999, and thus indirectly 
purchasing tech stocks, they may have also been buying tech stocks directly in their brokerage 
accounts, or investing in hedge funds that bought tech stocks.   Dumb money – Page 6 
 
Thus the hypothesis we wish to test is that stocks owned by funds with big inflows are 
overpriced.  These stocks could be overpriced because inflows force mutual funds to buy more 
shares and thus push stock prices higher, or they could be overpriced because overall demand 
(not just from mutual fund inflows) pushes stock prices higher.  In either case, inflows reflect the 
types of stocks with high investor demand.   
C. Styles 
A paper closely related to ours is Teo and Woo (2001), who also find evidence for a 
dumb money effect.  Following Barberis and Shleifer (2003), Teo and Woo (2001) consider 
categorical thinking by mutual fund investors along the dimensions of large/small or 
value/growth.  They show that when a particular category has large inflows, stocks in that 
category subsequently underperform.  Like us, they relate mutual fund flows to stock returns, but 
unlike us they look only at style returns, not individual stock returns.   
While Teo and Woo (2001) provide valuable and convincing evidence, our approach is 
more general.  The benefit is that we do not have to define specific styles or categories, such as 
value/growth.  While categorical thinking and style classification are undoubtedly important in 
determining fund flows, from a practical point of view it is difficult for the researcher to identify 
all relevant categories used by investors over time.   For example, the growth/value category was 
not widely used in 1980.  Instead, we impose no categorical structure on the data and just follow 
the flows.  Most strikingly, we are able to document that the fund flow effect is highly related to 
the value effect, a finding that could not have been discovered using the method of Teo and Woo 
(2001).  
II. Constructing the flow variable 
Previous research has focused on different ownership levels, such as mutual fund Dumb money – Page 7 
 
ownership as a fraction of shares outstanding (for example, Chen, Jegadeesh,  and Wermers, 
2000).  We want to devise a measure that is similar, but is based on flows.  Specifically, we want 
to take mutual fund ownership and decompose it into the portion due to flows and the portion not 
due to flows.  By “flows,” we mean flows from one fund to another fund (not flows in and out of 
the entire mutual fund sector).  
Our central variable is FLOW, the percent of the shares of a given stock owned by 
mutual funds that are attributable to fund flows.  This variable is defined as the actual ownership 
by mutual funds minus the ownership that would have occurred if every fund had received 
identical proportional inflows (instead of experiencing different inflows and outflows), every 
fund manager chose the same portfolio weights in different stocks as he actually did, and stock 
prices were the same as they actually were.  We define the precise formula later, but the 
following example shows the basic idea. 
Suppose at quarter 0, the entire mutual fund sector consists of two funds: a technology 
fund with $20 B in assets and a value fund with $80 B.  Suppose at quarter 1, the technology 
fund has an inflow of $11 B and has capital gains of $9 B (bringing its total assets to $40 B), 
while the value fund has an outflow of $1 B and capital gains of $1 B (so that its assets remain 
constant).  Suppose that in quarter 1 we observe the technology fund has 10% of its assets in 
Cisco, while the value fund has no shares of Cisco.  Thus in quarter 1, the mutual fund sector as 
a whole owns $4 B in Cisco.  If Cisco has $16 B in market capitalization in quarter 1, the entire 
mutual fund sector owns 25% of Cisco. 
We now construct a world where investors simply allocate flows in proportion to initial 
fund asset value.  Since in quarter 0 the total mutual fund sector has $100 B in assets and the 
total inflow is $10 B, the counterfactual assumption is that all funds get an inflow equal to 10% Dumb money – Page 8 
 
of their initial asset value. To simplify, we assume that the flows all occur at the end of the 
quarter (thus the capital gains earned by the funds are not affected by these inflows).  Thus in the 
counterfactual world the technology fund would receive (.20)*(10) = $2 B (giving it total assets 
of $31 B), while the value fund would receive (.80)*(10) = $8 B (giving it total assets of $89).  
In the counterfactual world the total investment in CISCO is given by (.1)*(31) = $3.1, which is 
19.4% of its market capitalization.  Hence, the FLOW for CISCO, the percent ownership of 
Cisco due to the non-proportional allocation of flows to mutual funds, is 25 – 19.4 = 5.6%.  
FLOW is an indicator of what types of stocks are owned by funds experiencing big 
inflows.  It is a number that can be positive, as in this example, or negative (if the stock is owned 
by funds experiencing outflows or lower-than-average inflows).  It reflects the active reallocation 
decisions by investors.  What FLOW does not measure is the amount of stock that is purchased 
with inflows; one cannot infer from this example that the technology fund necessarily used its 
inflows to buy Cisco.  To the contrary, our assumption in constructing the counterfactual is that 
mutual fund managers choose their percent allocation to different stocks in a way that is 
independent of inflows and outflows. 
Is it reasonable to assume that managers choose their portfolio weights across stocks 
without regard to inflows?  Obviously, there are many frictions (for example, taxes and 
transaction costs) that would cause mutual funds to change their stock portfolio weights in 
different stocks in response to different inflows.  Thus, we view FLOW as an imperfect measure 
of demand for stocks due to retail sentiment.   
In equilibrium, of course, a world with different flows would also be a world with 
different stock prices, so once cannot interpret the counterfactual world as an implementable 
alternative for the aggregate mutual fund sector.  Later, when we discuss the effects of flows on Dumb money – Page 9 
 
investor wealth, we consider an individual investor (who is too small to affect prices by himself) 
who behaves like the aggregate investor.  We test whether this individual representative investor 
benefits from the active reallocation decision implicit in fund flows.  For individual investors, 
refraining from active reallocation is an implementable strategy. 
A. Flows 
We calculate mutual fund flows using the CRSP  US Mutual Fund Database.  The 
universe of mutual funds we study includes all domestic equity funds that exists at any date 
between 1980 and 2003 for which quarterly net asset values (NAV) are available  and for which 
we can match CRSP data with the common stock holdings data from Thomson Financial 
(described in the next subsection).  Since we do not observe flows directly, we infer flows from 
fund return and net asset value (NAV) as reported by CRSP.  Let i
tN  be the total NAV of a fund 
i and let i
tR be its return between quarter 1−t and quarter t .  Following the standard practice in 
the literature (e.g. Zheng (1999), Sapp and Tiwari (2004)), we compute flows for fund i in 
quarter t, i
tF , as the dollar value of net new issues and redemptions using  
i
t
i
t
i
t
i
t
i
t MGNNRNF −⋅+−= −1)1(   (1) 
where MGN is the increase in total net assets due to mergers during quarter t . Note that (1) 
implicitly assumes that inflows and outflows occur at the end of the quarter, and that existing 
investors reinvest dividends and other distributions in the fund.   We assume that investors in the 
merged funds place their money in the surviving fund. Funds that are born have inflows equal to 
their initial NAV, while funds that die have outflows equal to their terminal NAV. 
 Counterfactual flows are computed under the assumption that each fund receives a pro 
rata share of the total dollar flows to the mutual fund sector between date kt−  and date t , with 
the proportion depending on NAV as of quarter t-k. More precisely, in order to compute the Dumb money – Page 10 
 
FLOW ownership at datet , we start by looking at the net asset value of the fund at date kt− . 
Then, for every date s  we track the evolution of the fund’s counterfactual NAV using:  
    Agg
s
i
s FFˆ
Agg
kt
i
kt
N
N
−
−=   (2) 
i
s
i
1-s
i
s FˆNˆ)1(Nˆ ++= i
tR   (3) 
tskt ≤≤−     
where iFˆ  and iNˆ  are counterfactual flows and NAV’s. AggF  is the actual aggregate flows for the 
entire mutual fund sector, while Agg
k-tN  is the actual aggregate NAV at date kt− .  Equations (2) 
and (3) describe the dynamics of funds that exist both in quarter t-k and in quarter t.  For funds 
that were newly created in the past k quarters, iNˆ  is automatically zero – all new funds by 
definition represent new flows. The resulting counterfactual net asset value 
i
tNˆ  at date t  
represents the fund size in a world with proportional flows in the last k  quarters.  
For a detailed numerical example of our counterfactual calculations, see the appendix (which 
also discusses adjustments to equations (2) and (3) in the case of funds that die). We obtain a 
quarterly time series of counterfactual net asset values for every fund by repeating the 
counterfactual exercise every quarter t  , and storing the resulting t
iNˆ  at the end of each rolling 
window. 
Consider a representative investor who represents a tiny fraction, call it q, of the mutual 
fund sector.  Suppose this investor behaves exactly like the aggregate of mutual investors, 
sending flows in and out of different funds at different times.  The counterfactual strategy 
described above is an alternative strategy for this investor, and is implementable using the same 
information and approximately the same amount of trading by the investor.  To implement this Dumb money – Page 11 
 
strategy, this investor only needs to know lagged fund NAV’s and aggregate flows.  For this 
investor, i
tNˆq  is his dollar holding in any particular fund.   
In designing this strategy, our aim is to create a neutral alternative to active reallocation, 
which matches the total flows to the mutual fund sector.  One could describe this strategy as a 
more passive, value-weighting alternative to the active reallocation strategy pursued by the 
aggregate investor.  It is similar in spirit to the techniques of Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and 
Wermers (1999) and Odean (1999) in that it compares the alternative of active trading to a more 
passive strategy based on lagged asset holdings.  A feature of our counterfactual calculations is 
that they do not mechanically depend on the actual performance of the funds.  A simpler strategy 
would have been to simply hold funds in proportion to their lagged NAV.  The problem with this 
strategy is that it mechanically tends to sell funds with high returns and buy funds with low 
returns.  Since we wanted to devise a strategy that reflected only flow decisions by investors (not 
return patterns in stocks), we did not used this simpler strategy. 
Let itx  be the net asset value of fund i  in month t as a percentage of total asset of the 
mutual fund sector: 
Agg
t
i
t
it
N
Nx =   (4) 
The counterfactual under proportional flows is: 
Agg
t
i
t
it
N
Nx
ˆ
ˆ =   (5) 
The difference between itx and itxˆ  reflects the active decisions of investors to reallocate money 
from one manager to another over the past k quarters in a way that is not proportional to the 
NAV of the funds.  This difference reflects any deviation from value weighting by the NAV of Dumb money – Page 12 
 
the fund in marking new contributions.  In theory, this difference could reflect rebalancing away 
from high performing funds and into poorly performing funds, in order to maintain some fixed 
weights (instead of market weights).  In practice, investors tend to unbalance (not rebalance), 
sending money from poorly performing funds to high performing funds. 
B. Holdings  
Thomson Financial provides the CDA/Spectrum mutual funds database, which includes 
all registered domestic mutual funds filing with the SEC. The data show holdings of individual 
funds collected via fund prospectuses and SEC N30D filings.  The holdings constitute almost all 
the equity holdings of the fund (see Appendix for a few small exceptions).  The holdings data in 
this study run from January 1980 to December 2003. 
Most funds report their holdings quarterly, although the SEC requires mutual funds to 
disclose their holdings on a semi-annual basis.   Approximately 60% of the funds report quarterly 
holdings, with the rest semiannual. Although reports may be made on any day, the last day of the 
quarter is most commonly the report day.  A typical fund-quarter-stock observation would be as 
follows: as of March 30th, 1998, Fidelity Magellan owned 20,000 shares of IBM.   The holdings 
data are notably error-ridden, with obvious typographical errors (sometimes involving transposed 
digits and misplaced decimal points). Furthermore, some reports are missing from the database. 
We use a series of filters to eliminate data errors and to handle missing reports (see appendix). 
In matching the holdings data to the CRSP mutual fund database, we utilized fund 
tickers, fund names and total net asset values. Our matching system works better in the latter part 
of the sample: coverage of the dollar assets of the total CRSP universe of funds rises from about 
64% in 1980 to 96% in 2003 (in future version of this paper, we hope to obtain more accurate 
matching data from WRDS).  For each fund and each quarter, we calculate ijw  as the portfolio Dumb money – Page 13 
 
weight of fund i in stock j based on the latest available holdings data.2  Hence the portfolios 
weights ijw  reflect fluctuations of the market price of the security held. 
Let z be the actual percent of the shares outstanding held by the mutual fund sector,  
j
i
Agg
tijij MKTCAPNwxz /⎟
⎠
⎞⎜
⎝
⎛ ⋅⋅= ∑   (6) 
where jMKTCAP  is the market capitalization of firm j .  The ownership that would have 
occurred with proportional flows into all funds and unchanged fund stock allocation and stock 
prices would be 
j
i
Agg
tijij MKTCAPNwxz /ˆˆ ⎟
⎠
⎞⎜
⎝
⎛ ⋅⋅= ∑   (7) 
For each stock, we calculate our central variable, FLOW, as the percent of the shares 
outstanding with mutual fund ownership attributable to flows.  The flow of security j is given by  
[] tj
i
Agg
tijtititjtjtj MKTCAPNwxxzzFLOW ,,,,,, /ˆˆ
⎭⎬⎫
⎩⎨⎧ ⋅⋅−=−= ∑  (8) 
This flow has the following interpretation.  If each portfolio manager had made exactly the same 
decisions in terms of percent allocation of his total assets to different stocks, and if stock prices 
were unchanged, but the dollars had flown to each portfolio manager in proportion to their NAV 
for the last k periods, then mutual fund ownership in stock j would be lower by FLOW.  Stocks 
with high FLOW are stocks that are owned by mutual funds that have experienced high inflows.3   
In this paper, we focus on a three year horizon in calculating FLOW.  Since our goal is to 
understand the long-term effects on investor wealth, the longer the horizon, the better.  Since our 
sample is less that 25 years long, three years is approaching the longest horizon that is 
appropriate given data limitations.  Three years is also the approximate frequency of the value 
effect or reversal effect in stock returns.   Dumb money – Page 14 
 
We first describe the data for funds.  Table I shows the top and bottom funds in 
December 1999, ranked on the difference between actual fraction of the fund universe (x) and 
counterfactual fraction ( itxˆ ).  In 1999, the Magellan fund has assets that constituted 3.5% of our 
sample mutual fund universe, but had been receiving below average inflows over the past three 
years.  Had Magellan received flows in proportion to its size over the previous three years, it 
would have been 4.8% of the universe instead of 3.5%.  The table shows that in 1999, the funds 
receiving big inflows tended to be technology and growth funds.   
Figure 1 shows the experience of some of the largest funds in our sample.  We show the 
actual fraction of the mutual fund universe, and the counterfactual fraction using a three year 
horizon.  As expected, the counterfactual percent ownership tends to mirror the actual ownership 
with a three year lag.  In interpreting these graphs, bear in mind that the actual level (x) of the 
fund reflects two things: the fund’s performance, and its inflows and outflows.  The variable we 
are interested in is the difference between the actual level and the counterfactual level.   
Figure 1 shows that Magellan was a highly successful fund attracting inflows through the 
1980’s, then subsequently faded and did not receive proportional inflows.  The Vanguard 500 
fund steadily attracted more inflows as indexing grew more popular over the sample period.  
Apparently index funds experienced a sharp drop in popularity around the year 2000.  Note that 
index funds are appropriate for the purposes of our study.  If investor sentiment favors index 
funds, then one would expect stocks in the index to be overpriced relative to other stocks, and 
there is some evidence from the index inclusion literature to support this idea. The Janus 20  fund 
shows a striking oscillation over time, with the tech stock mania period of 1999/2000 reflecting 
very high inflows. 
Table II shows some results for individual firms as of December 1999.  The table shows Dumb money – Page 15 
 
the top and bottom ten firms ranked on total dollar flows over the past three years (in the 
analysis, we focus on flows as a percent of market value, but here we rank on dollar flows in 
order to generate familiar names).  The effect of flows on mutual fund ownership can be fairly 
sizeable, with flows raising the total ownership of Sun Microsystems from 16% to 20%.  Stocks 
with the biggest inflows tend to be technology stocks, while stocks with the biggest outflows 
tend to be boring financial or manufacturing firms, closely correspond to our perceptions of 
investor sentiment in the three year period ending 1999. 
In interpreting the flow variable, it is important to remember that flow is a relative 
concept driven only by differences in flows and holdings across different funds holding different 
stocks.  Flow is not intended to capture is any notion of the absolute popularity of stock.  For 
example, consider Alcoa.  The fact the flow variable is large and negative in Table II does not 
mean that Alcoa was unpopular with mutual funds, nor does it mean that mutual funds are selling 
Alcoa.  It could be that every mutual fund loved Alcoa, held a lot of it, and bought more of it in 
1999.  What the negative flow means is that the funds which overweighted Alcoa in 1999 
received lower-than-average inflows in 1999.  Individual investors favored funds which tilted 
toward stocks like Cisco more than funds which tilted towards stocks like Alcoa. 
Table III shows regression evidence on the determinants of the flow variable for 
individual stocks.  We use a six month horizon in defining flow for these regressions and use 
non-overlapping six month periods to avoid complications in calculating standard errors.  The six 
month horizon is natural to use for these regressions since funds are required to report holdings 
at least semiannually (so that our variables are updated at least every six months).   
Table III follows the basic format of the regressions in this paper.  In many of the 
regressions in this paper, we transform all variables into percentiles for each month.  Thus each Dumb money – Page 16 
 
variable is a number between 0 and 1, representing the rank of the stock on that dimension 
compared to all other CRSP stocks in that time period.  We do this to avoid outliers, to put all 
variables into the same units for comparison purposes, and to make the results more interpretable 
in light of the standard portfolio practices of forming quintiles.  The regressions are pooled OLS 
regressions including fixed effects for each month.  The independent variables are always lagged 
at least one month.  The standard errors have been adjusted for time clustering, as in Rogers 
(1993).  Thus the regressions are quite similar to Fama-Macbeth.  The variables are constructed 
using the standard CRSP and Compustat sources.   
The first two columns of Table III show univariate regressions of six month flows 
regressed against stock returns over the past year and the past three years.  As expected given the 
previous literature, these regressions show positive and significant coefficients.  Flows tend to go 
to funds that have high past returns, and since funds returns are driven by the stocks that they 
own, flows tend to go to stocks that have high past returns.  The coefficient of 0.10 in the first 
column means as one goes from the stocks with the most lowest past returns to the stocks with 
the highest past returns, the percentile ranking of flows goes up 10% (say, from the 40th 
percentile to the 50th percentile). 
The next two columns show two other variable which will be important in understanding 
flows.  The first is the market-book ratio.  The market-book ratio follows the definition of Fama 
and French (1993).  Their method of constructing the variable induces substantial staleness (of 6-
18 months) in the market-book ratio.  The second variable measures corporate issuance.  In 
contrast to the trading by individuals, reflecting uninformed and possibly irrational demand, the 
actions of firms represents informed and probably more rational supply.  A substantial body of 
research studies whether firms opportunistically take advantage of mispricing by issuing equity Dumb money – Page 17 
 
when it is overpriced and buying it back when it is underpriced (for example Loughran and 
Ritter, 1995).  Corporate managers certainly say they are trying to time the market (Graham and 
Harvey, 2001).   
We measure firm behavior using the composite share issuance measure of Daniel and 
Titman (2004).  Our version of this variable is 1 minus the firm’s (split-adjusted) ratio of the 
number of shares outstanding firm three years ago to the number of shares outstanding today.  
For example, if the company has 100 shares and has a seasoned equity issue of an additional 50 
shares, the composite issuance measure is 33%, meaning that 33% of the existing shares today 
were issued recently.  We define the variable in this way to make it comparable to the flow 
measure (both are expressed as a fraction of market value of the company, and are variables 
bounded above by 100% and unbounded below).  The measure can be negative (reflecting for 
example repurchases) or positive (reflecting for example options given to executives, seasoned 
equity offerings, stock-financed mergers).  Issuance and value are strongly related: growth firms 
tend to issue stock, value firms tend to repurchase stock.    Past research, such as Fama and 
French (1993) and Daniel and Titman (2004), shows that when either issuance or market-book is 
high today, returns are low over the next year.  Table III shows that for six month flows, neither 
the market-book ratio nor corporate issuance appear to be important determinants of flows.   
Figure 2 shows the history of the top and bottom firms in Table II.  In interpreting these 
graphs, bear in mind that both issuance and flows are rolling backward-looking three year 
concepts, while market-book is an annual snapshot updated in July of each year (following Fama 
and French (1993)).  Looking at Alcoa, it starts the sample as an extreme value firm, and market-
book slowly climbs until it is around average at the end of the sample period.  For Cisco, 
valuations are high throughout the sample period, and Cisco is always a growth firm as measured Dumb money – Page 18 
 
by market-book.  In contrast to market-book, flows seem more variable for these two firms, with 
Alcoa coming in to favor around 1995 while Cisco falls out of favor at the same time, then the 
two reverse in the later 1990’s.  Looking at the figures, there is some sense that the three 
different variables (market-book, issuance and flows) are positively correlated, but clearly the 
three variables also contain some information independent of each other.  
III. Regression results: Flows and returns 
A. Univariate relation between returns and flows 
Table IV shows univariate regressions predicting monthly returns with lagged variables.  
We show the predictive power of flows, and for comparison we show several other variables that 
are related to flows, and which may have their own previously documented predictive power for 
returns.  The dependent variable is monthly returns in percentage points, while the independent 
variables are the latest available percentilized independent variables, variously updated at the 
annual (market-book), monthly (for momentum, reversals, and issuance), or semi-
annual/quarterly (flows) frequency.   
We first discuss the results for flows.  The table shows flows over horizons stretching 
from three months (one quarter, the shortest interval we have for calculating flows) to three 
years.  Looking at the first column, it is striking that for every horizon but three months, high 
flows today predict low future stock returns.  This relation is statistically significant at the one 
year and three year horizon.  If one is interested in the long-term effects of investor reallocation 
(whether over time investors benefit from reallocating money across different funds), longer 
horizons are the appropriate measure.  This dumb money effect is the central result of this paper.  
Focusing on the three year results, the coefficient of -0.90 means as one goes from the stocks Dumb money – Page 19 
 
with the most extreme outflows to the stocks with the most extreme inflows, average monthly 
returns fall by 90 basis points.  
Perhaps surprisingly, we find no solid evidence for the smart money effect in raw returns, 
even at the horizons of six to twelve months where one might expect price momentum to 
dominate.  This difference from previous results may be due to two factors.  First, by focusing on 
stock returns instead of fund returns, we avoid many complications involving expense ratios, 
trading costs, and cash holdings by funds.  Second, our measure of flows is quite different than 
standard because we focus on net flows into individual stocks, not net flows into individual 
funds.  Gruber (1996) and Zheng (1999) focus on funds that have disproportionately high 
inflows, while we focus on stocks that are disproportionately owned by fund with inflows (as 
measured by dollar flows compared to market capitalization of the stock).  For example, if Cisco 
is owned by 100 large funds, all of which have slightly higher than average inflows, our measure 
would classify Cisco as a high sentiment stock.  In contrast, the papers cited above would look at 
individual funds, perhaps small funds that had very high inflows in the past.   
The second column shows regressions where returns have been adjusted to control for 
value, size, and momentum.  Following Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997), it 
subtracts from each stock return the return on a portfolio of firms matched on market equity, 
market-book, and prior one-year return quintiles (a total of 125 matching portfolios).4  Here the 
dumb money effect is substantially reduced, with the coefficient falling from -0.90 to -0.34 for 
three year flows, still significantly negative but less than half as large.  As we shall see, this 
partially reflects the fact that high sentiment stocks tend to be stocks with high market-book.  
Thus using a three year horizon, the dumb money effect is statistically distinct from the value 
effect, but obviously highly related.   Dumb money – Page 20 
 
One might ask whether the dumb money effect is an implementable strategy for outside 
investors using information available in real time.  Our methodology involves substantial built-in 
staleness of flows largely reflecting the way that Thomson Financial has structured the data.5  So 
the variable in Table IV is certainly in the information set of any investor who has access to all 
the regulatory filings and reports from mutual funds, as they are filed.  Currently, filings appear 
on the SEC EDGAR system on the next business days following a filing, but information lags 
were probably longer at the beginning of the sample period.   
To address this issue, Table IV shows the six month and three year flow variables, both 
generously lagged another six months.  Even lagged six months, the three year flow variable 
remains a statistically significant predictor of returns.  Thus the dumb money effect is not 
primarily about short-term information contained in flows, it is about long-term mispricing.  
Indeed, lagging the six month flow variable causes a substantial improvement in predictive 
power.  This improvement probably reflects that by skipping the most recent six months, we 
avoid the positive correlation of short-term momentum and short-term flows. 
For comparison, Table IV also shows univariate relations for other variables which are 
both known to predict returns and which are related to flows.  The positive relation between 
lagged annual returns and future returns reflects the momentum effect of Jegadeesh and Titman 
(1993).  The negative coefficient on lagged three year returns reflects the reversal effect of De 
Bondt and Thaler (1985).  The negative coefficient on market-book reflects the value effect of 
Fama and French (1993).  The negative coefficient on issuance reflects the issuance effect of 
Daniel and Titman (2004), combining a variety of previously documented effects involving 
repurchases, mergers, and seasoned equity issues.  The three year flow effect seems to be 
roughly the same order of magnitude to these other effects.  We also show predictive power of Dumb money – Page 21 
 
actual mutual fund ownership, and counterfactual three year ownership.  Neither variable comes 
in significant; we return to this relation later. 
Table V shows multiple regressions predicting raw monthly returns.  We focus on the 
three year flow horizon.  We put measures of value, momentum, and issuance on the right-hand 
side as an alternative method of controlling for these known effects.  Controlling for these 
variables does not make the dumb money effect go away.  Although these additional variables 
reduce the magnitude of the flow coefficient, it remains significantly negative.  We show several 
robustness tests.  First, we shows the results for regressions that are restricted to stocks that are 
above the median market cap for all CRSP stocks.  This restriction modestly decreases the 
coefficient on flows.  We also try splitting the sample in two halves, an important check because 
of the extreme events of the late 1990's.  The table shows that flows remain significant in both 
halves of the sample, although the dumb money effect is stronger in the second half of the 
sample period.  In this version of the paper, our flow data is noisier in the first half of the sample 
(due to difficulty matching the holdings data with the CRSP database).  In addition, the universe 
of mutual funds itself was much smaller in the beginning of the sample.  Both these facts make 
the early part of the sample less reliable from a data standpoint.  
In summary, three year mutual fund flows strongly negatively predict future stock 
returns, and there is no horizon at which flows reliable positively predict returns.  The dumb 
money effect is present controlling for value and momentum, present in both large and small cap 
stocks, and present in different time periods.  In terms of statistical significance, sign, and 
absolute magnitude, it is similar to the value, reversal, and the issuance effects. Dumb money – Page 22 
 
IV. Calendar time portfolios, economic significance, and manager skill 
In this section, we move from cross-sectional regression evidence to examining monthly 
returns on calendar time portfolios.  We start by forming standard long/short portfolio returns 
consisting of the top quintile and bottom quintile of various variables.  Table VI shows the 
results, forming portfolios sorted on three year flows, lagged returns, market-book, and corporate 
issuance.  These portfolios are rebalanced monthly with the latest available values.  All the 
portfolios are formed in the same way.  We first show equal weight portfolios, while in the next 
subsection, we look at portfolios that are value weighted (where the weights come from the 
aggregate holdings of the entire mutual fund sector). 
Panel A of Table VI shows summary statistics for these calendar time portfolios, and tells 
a story similar to tables IV and V.  Stocks with high flows have returns that are significantly 
below stocks with low flows.  Looking at mean returns, the difference between high sentiment 
and low sentiment stocks is 59 basis points per month.  This mean differential is somewhat 
smaller than the other four differentials shown.  Looking at t-statistics, however, the dumb 
money effect is comparatively strong.  It is second only to the value effect in statistical 
significance.  Turning now to the monthly return correlations, it is clear from Table V that three 
year flows produce returns that are highly correlated with issuance and value.  Despite the fact 
that (as shown in Tables IV and V), the dumb money effect holds controlling for value and 
issuance, the high correlations show that these three effects are very related.  
Panel B of Table VI shows yet another way of testing whether the dumb money effect is 
independent of the value effect.  It shows spanning tests, whether the dumb money factor is 
priced by the value factor.  We first regress the equal weight flow portfolio on the equal weight 
market-book portfolio (using the same monthly return series shown in Panel A).  In this Dumb money – Page 23 
 
formulation, the flow portfolio loads positively on the market-book portfolio, while the alpha is 
insignificantly different from zero.  So this column says that the low returns associated with 
flows are explained by market-book.  On the other hand, the next column shows an alternative 
measure of the value effect, the HML factor of Fama and French (1993).  Here, a significant 
intercept term remains.  The next column shows the full Fama and French (1993) three factor 
model, which again fails to fully explain the returns on the flow portfolio.  The last three 
columns of panel B give more evidence on subsample stability.  Again, the dumb money effect is 
significant in both halves of the sample, but much stronger in the second half. 
In summary, using calendar time portfolio returns shows that the dumb money effect is a 
statistically strong effect.  The evidence on whether the dumb money effect is fully explained by 
value is mixed at best.  The dumb money effect is certainly highly correlated with the value 
effect.   
A. The magnitude of wealth destruction 
So far we have shown that stocks owned by funds with large inflows have poor 
subsequent returns.  What is the economic significance of this fact?  In this section, we measure 
the wealth consequences of active reallocation across funds, for the average investor.  We 
abstract from the important issues of fund expenses and trading costs, and look only at the effect 
on mean returns earned by investors.  These expenses and trading costs are another real source of 
wealth destruction for individual investors, but they have been amply documented elsewhere.  
We assess the economic significance by measuring the average pre-cost return earned by a 
representative investor, and comparing it to the pre-cost return he could have earned by simply 
refraining from engaging in non-proportional flows.   Dumb money – Page 24 
 
Define RACTUAL as the return earned by a representative mutual investor who owns a tiny 
fraction of each existing mutual fund.  The returns would reflect a portfolio of stocks where the 
portfolio weights reflect the portfolio weights of the aggregate mutual fund sector: 
∑∑ ⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢
⎣
⎡=
ij
j
ttijti
ACTUAL
t RwxR ,,   (9) 
where RJ is the return on stock j.  The return from a strategy of refraining from non-proportional 
flows, RNOFLOW, is 
∑∑ ⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢
⎣
⎡=
ij
j
ttijti
NOFLOW
t RwxR ,,ˆ   (10) 
We use three year flows in these calculations.  Table VII shows excess returns on these two 
portfolios, and for comparison shows the value weighted market return as well.  Since the two 
mutual fund portfolios use weights based on dollar holdings, they are of course quite similar to 
each other and to the market portfolio.   
 Although very similar, these portfolios are not  identical.  Table VII shows investor flows 
cause a significant reduction in both average returns and Sharpe ratios earned by mutual fund 
investors.  A representative investor who is currently behaving like the aggregate mutual fund 
sector could increase his Sharpe ratio 9% (from a monthly Sharpe ratio of 0.139 to 0.152) by 
refraining from active reallocation and just directing his flows proportionally.6   
 One can assess the significance of this difference in mean returns by looking at the 
returns on the long-short portfolio RACTUAL - RNOFLOW.  This return is similar to the long-short 
portfolio studied in Table V, except that here all stocks owned by the mutual fund sector are 
included, and the weights are proportional to the dollar value of the holdings.  The difference is 
negative and highly significant.   Dumb money – Page 25 
 
Thus investor flows cause wealth destruction.  This conclusion is, of course, a partial 
equilibrium statement.  If all investors switched to proportional flows, presumably stock prices 
would change to reflect that.  But for one individual investor, it appears that fund flows are 
harmful to wealth.  One component we do not attempt to measure is the transactions cost of 
switching from one fund to another for individual investors, which would increase the wealth 
destruction implied by current behavior. 
 How large is the wealth destruction caused by flows, compared to other costs associated 
with mutual funds?  As a ballpark estimate, it appears that this wealth destruction is perhaps one 
fourth or one half as big (in terms of mean returns) by the effects of expenses and trading costs.  
The annual reduction in returns shown in Table VI is about 0.60%.  Since expense ratios on 
actively managed funds are in the neighborhood of 1% per year and turnover is in the 
neighborhood of 100% per year, the total incremental cost (compared to the alternative of a low 
turnover, low cost index fund) of active management is around 1% to 2%.  Thus the other sins of 
active management probably outweigh the deleterious effects of fund flows. 
B. Better identification of mutual fund manager skill 
Table VII helps disentangle the effect of flows from the effect of manager stock picking.  
We start by considering the average of RACTUAL – RM, which measures the net return benefit of 
owning the aggregate fund holdings instead of holding the market (ignoring trading costs and 
expenses).  The average of this difference, 0.02, consists of two components.  The first, RACTUAL 
- RNOFLOW, is the net benefit of reallocations.  We already have seen that this dumb money effect 
is negative.  The second, RNOFLOW – RM, measures the ability of the mutual fund managers to 
pick stocks which outperform the market (using value weights for managers).  As shown in the 
table, using raw returns, this stock picking effect is 0.08 per month, with a t-statistic of 1.86.  Dumb money – Page 26 
 
Thus there is some modest evidence that mutual fund managers do have the ability to pick stocks 
that outperform the market, once one controls for their clients’ tendencies of switching money 
from one fund to another.  As shown in the table, this modest skill is obscured (when looking 
only at actual holdings) by the clients anti-skill at picking funds. 
A different question is whether the fund managers have the ability to outperform more 
specific benchmarks.  The bottom half of Table VII closely follow the approach of Daniel, 
Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997) and replaces raw returns in the calculations with 
characteristic adjusted returns, thus showing whether mutual fund managers can pick stocks that 
outperform their benchmarks defined by size, value, and momentum.  Adjusting for these 
characteristics, the net benefit of owning mutual funds is now zero.  The dumb money effect 
remains negative and significant (though it is smaller controlling for value, as usual).  The stock 
picking effect is still positive at 0.02, but insignificant.  Thus we don’t find much evidence that 
mutual fund managers can beat passive benchmarks, even controlling for their clients behavior. 
To help gauge the economic magnitude of the dumb money effect shown in Table VII, 
we show at the bottom the statistics over the same sample period for HML, the value factor as 
constructed by Fama and French (1993).  Consider the raw dumb money effect of -0.05% per 
month with associated Sharpe ratio of -0.167.  This portfolio is a value weighted concept in that 
it reflects the difference between a value weighted actual portfolio and a “value weighted” 
counterfactual portfolio.  It does not involve taking large positions in small or illiquid stocks.   
An investor seeking to exploit the dumb money effect would go long the stocks with outflows, 
short the stocks with inflows, and would earn a Sharpe ratio of 0.167 per month.  Now consider 
the HML effect, which uses a combination of size-stratification and value weighting to reduce Dumb money – Page 27 
 
the influence of small stocks.  An investor exploiting the value effect in this way could earn a 
Sharpe ratio of 0.122.   
Thus using this metric, the dumb money effect looks stronger than the value effect, and if 
one regresses HML on this measure of the dumb money effect, it turns out that the intercept is 
insignificantly different from zero.  Thus this particular weighting scheme has the dumb money 
effect subsuming the value effect.  We have now looked at many different methods of whether 
the dumb money effect is subsumed by the value effect, and gotten three different answers: that 
the dumb money effect is not subsumed by value (Tables  IV and V and parts of Table VI), that 
it is subsumed by value (parts of Table VI), and that it subsumes value.  Thus it appears that the 
two effects are so related that they are difficult to disentangle.  It seems clear that the dumb 
money effect and the value effect are stemming from the same underlying phenomenon.   
V. Conclusion 
In this paper, we have shown that individual investors have a striking ability to do the 
wrong thing.  They send their money to mutual funds which own stocks that do poorly over the 
subsequent months and years.  Individual investors are dumb money, and one can use their 
mutual fund reallocation decisions to predict future stock returns.  The dumb money  effect is 
robust to a variety of different control variables, not due to one particular time period, and 
implementable using real-time information.  By doing the opposite of individuals, one can 
construct a portfolio with high returns. Individuals hurt themselves by their decisions, and we 
calculate that aggregate mutual fund investor could raise his Sharpe ratio by 9% simply by 
refraining from destructive behavior.  These facts pose a challenge to rational theories of fund 
flows.  Of course, rational theories of mutual fund investor behavior already face many Dumb money – Page 28 
 
formidable challenges, such as explaining why investors consistently invest in active managers 
when lower cost, better forming index funds are available. 
 The evidence on mutual fund flows and stock returns closely mirrors two central patterns 
in stock prices: value (or reversals) and momentum.  There is a tension between these two 
patterns, since momentum says stocks that have gone up continue to go up, while value/reversals 
says that stocks that have gone up subsequently go down; the only difference is the time horizon.  
In the case of the dumb money effect, this tension is less severe: the only reliable pattern is that 
stocks with high inflows have low subsequent returns.  However, the competing momentum and 
value/reversal effects are clearly present in the data.  In the short term, mutual fund flows are 
highly related to momentum: individual investors send money to funds which have recently gone 
up.  At the short term horizon, the positive momentum effect and the negative dumb money 
effect seem to cancel each other out.  At the long-term, the dumb money effect behaves a lot like 
the value effect.  Although the dumb money effect is by some measures statistically distinct from 
the value effect, it is clear these two effects are highly related. 
The evidence on issuers and flows presents a somewhat nonstandard portrait of capital 
markets.  Past papers have looked at institutions vs. individuals, and tried to test if institutions 
take advantage of individuals.  Here, the story is different.  Individuals do trade poorly, but these 
trades are executed through their dynamic allocation across mutual funds, that is, via financial 
institutions.  As far as we can tell, it is not financial institutions that exploit the individuals, but 
rather the non-financial institutions that issue stock and repurchase stock.  We find some modest 
evidence that mutual fund managers have stock picking skill, but that any skill is swamped by 
the actions of retail investors in switching their money across funds.  In our data, financial Dumb money – Page 29 
 
institutions seem more like passive intermediaries who facilitate trade between the dumb money, 
individuals, and the smart money, firms. 
It is clear that any satisfactory theory of the value effect will need to explain three facts.  
First, value stocks have higher than average returns than growth stocks.  Second, using issuance 
and repurchases, the corporate sector tends to sell growth stocks and buy value stocks.  Third, 
individuals, using mutual funds, tend to buy growth stocks and sell value stocks.  One coherent 
explanation of these three facts is that investor sentiment causes some stocks to be overvalued 
relative to other stocks, and that firms exploit this mispricing. Dumb money – Page 30 
 
ENDNOTES
                                                 
1 Sapp and Tiwari (2004) challenge this view, arguing plausibly that the effect merely reflects the 
price momentum effect in stock returns, not selection ability.  Another hypothesis, explored by 
Wemers (2004), is that (rather than any manager selection ability) mutual fund inflows actually 
push prices higher. 
2 We handle missing reports as follows: whenever a fund has a missing report between two valid 
report dates, we assume that the fund did not change its holdings with respect to the previous 
report. 
3 Another way of describing FLOW is that it is the actual percent ownership by the mutual fund 
sector, minus the counterfactual percent ownership.  Since the actual percent ownership is 
bounded above by 100%, FLOW is bounded above by 100%.  In the counterfactual case, there is 
no accounting identity enforcing that the dollar value of fund holdings is less than the market 
capitalization of the stock.  Thus FLOW is unbounded below.  Values of FLOW less than -100% 
are very rare, occurring less than 0.01% of the time for three year flows. 
4 These 125 portfolios are reformed every month based on the market equity, M/B ratio, and 
prior year return from the previous month.  Following Fama and French (1993), the M/B ratio is 
only updated annually in July, based on the value as of the previous December.  The portfolios 
are equal weighted and the quintiles are defined with respect to the entire universe in that month. 
5 The data shows holdings for points in time that reflect both a “vintage”  file date (FDATE) and 
a report date. Neither of the two dates correspond to the actual filing date with the SEC. The 
report date is the calendar day when a snapshot of the portfolio is recorded, while Thomson 
Financial always assigns file dates to the corresponding quarter ends of the filings. The report 
date coincides with the file date about 60% of the time , but in some cases dates back as much as Dumb money – Page 31 
 
                                                                                                                                                             
6 months prior to the file date, as fund manager have discretion about when to take a snapshot of 
their portfolio to be filed at a subsequent date.  These holdings eventually become public 
information. For accuracy, we always use the end of quarter file date assigned by Thomson 
Financial.  This quarterly interval introduces a source of staleness into the holdings data.   
6 Lamont (2002) finds similar results for the policy of refraining from buying new issues. Dumb money – Page 32 
 
References 
Barber, B. and Odean T., 2000,   "Trading is Hazardous to Your Wealth: The Common Stock 
Investment Performance of Individual Investors" with Brad Barber, Journal of Finance, Vol. 
LV, No. 2, 773-806. 
Barber, B. and Odean T., 2001, "Boys will be Boys: Gender, Overconfidence, and Common 
Stock Investment", Quarterly Journal of Economics, February 2001, Vol. 116, No. 1, 261-292 
Barber, B. and Odean T., 2004, “All that Glitters: The Effect of Attention and News on the 
Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional Investors, working paper 
Barber, B., Odean T. and Zheng L. (2004) Out of Sight, Out of Mind: The Effects of Expenses 
on Mutual Fund Flows, Journal of Business, forthcoming 
Barberis, N, and Shleifer, A.,  2004, “Style investing”, Journal of Financial Economics, Volume 
68, Issue 2, May 2003, Pages 161-199 
Brown, Stephen J., Goetzmann, William N., Hiraki, Takato, Shiraishi, Noriyoshi and Watanabe, 
Masahiro, 2002, "Investor Sentiment in Japanese and U.S. Daily Mutual Fund Flows" 
(September 2002). Yale ICF Working Paper No. 02-09 
Chen, H., Jegadeesh, N., Wermers, R., 2000. The value of active mutual fund management: an 
examination of the stockholdings and trades of fund managers. Journal of Financial and 
Quantitative Analysis 35, 343–368. 
 
Chevalier, Judith, and Glenn Ellison, 1997, “Risk taking by mutual funds as a response to 
incentives,” Journal of Political Economy 105, 1167-1200. 
Cohen, Randolph B., Coval, Joshua and Pástor, Lubos, 2003Judging fund managers by the 
company they keep; Working paper 04-023.; Boston: Division of Research Harvard Business 
School, 2003. 
Daniel, K., Grinblatt, M., Titman, S., Wermers, R., 1997.  Measuring mutual fund performance 
with characteristic-based benchmarks.  Journal of Finance 52, 1035-1058. 
 
Daniel, Kent, and Sheridan Titman, 2004, Market reaction to tangible and intangible 
information, working paper 
 
E. Kacperczyk, Marcin T., Clemens Sialm, and Lu Zheng (2005): “On the Industry 
Concentration of Actively Managed Equity Mutual Funds,” Forthcoming: Journal of Finance, 
2005. 
Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1993, Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks 
and Bonds, Journal of Financial Economics 33, 3—56. Dumb money – Page 33 
 
Goetzmann, W., and Massa, M., 2002. Daily momentum and contrarian behavior of index fund 
investors. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 37, 375-390. 
Graham, John R., and Campbell Harvey, 2001, The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: 
Evidence from the Field, Journal of Financial Economics 60, 187-243. 
 
Grinblatt, M., and S. Titman, and R. Wermers, 1995, Momentum Investment Strategies, 
Portfolio Performance and Herding, A Study of Mutual Fund Behavior, American Economic 
Review, 85, 1088-1105 
Grinblatt, M., and Keloharju, M., 2000. The investment behavior and performance of 
various investor types: A study of Finland’s unique data set. Journal of Financial 
Economics 55, 43-67. 
 
Gruber, Martin, 1996, Another puzzle: The growth in actively managed mutual funds, Journal of 
Finance 51, 783-810 
 
Ippolito, Richard A., 1992,  “Consumer reaction to measures of poor quality: evidence from the 
mutual fund industry,” Journal of Law and Economics 35 (April 1992), 45-70. 
Jain, Prem C., and Wu, Joanna Shuang, 2000, Truth in mutual fund advertising: Evidence on 
future performance and fund flows, Journal of Finance 55, 937-958. 
Jegadeesh, N. and S. Titman, 1993. "Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers: 
Implications for Stock Market Efficiency," Journal of Finance, 48, 65-91. 
Lamont, Owen A., 2002, Evaluating value weighting: Corporate events and market timing, 
NBER Working Paper No. 9049. 
Loughran, Tim, and Jay R. Ritter, 1995, The New Issues Puzzle, Journal of Finance 50, 23-51.  
 
Odean T., 1999, "Do Investors Trade Too Much?", American Economic Review, Vol. 89, 1279-
1298. 
Rogers, W., 1993.  Regression standard errors in clustered samples.  Stata Technical Bulletin 13, 
19-23. 
Sirri, Erik R. and Peter Tufano, 1998, .Costly Search And Mutual Fund Flows,. Journal of 
Finance, 53, pp. 1589-1622 
Teo, Melvyn and Sung-Jun Woo, 2001, Persistence in Style-Adjusted Mutual Fund Returns, 
Journal of Financial Economics forthcoming 
Travis Sapp and Ashish Tiwari, 2004, Does Stock Return Momentum Explain the "Smart 
Money" Effect?, Journal of Finance, forthcoming Dumb money – Page 34 
 
Wermers, R., 1999, Mutual Fund Trading and the Impact on Stock Prices, Journal of Finance, 
54, 581-62 
Wermers R., 2000, Mutual Fund Performance: An Empirical Decomposition into Stock-Picking 
Talent, Style, Transactions Costs, and Expenses, Journal of Finance, 55, 1655-1695   
Wermers, Russell, 2004, Is Money Really "Smart"? New Evidence on the Relation Between 
Mutual Fund Flows, Manager Behavior, and Performance Persistence, Working Paper 
Zheng, Lu, 1999, Is money smart? A study of mutual fund investors’ fund selection ability, 
Journal of Finance 54, 901-933. Dumb money – Page 35 
 
Data Appendix 
A. Holdings data and error screens 
    We obtain data on stocks holding for equity mutual funds investing in the US between 
1980 and 2003 from the Thomson Financial CDA/Spectrum Mutual Funds database. Since our 
focus is on US equity funds, we remove all US-based international funds, fixed-income funds, 
real estate funds and precious metal funds. 
Holdings are identified by CUSIPs, they constitute most of the equities, but are not 
necessarily the entire equity holdings of the manager or fund. The potential exclusions include: 
small holdings (typically under 10,000 shares or $200,000), cases where there may be 
confidentiality issues, reported holdings that could not be matched to a master security file, and 
cases where two or more managers share control (since the SEC requires only one manager in 
such a case to include the holdings information in their report). 
    The statutory requirement for reporting holdings is semi-annual, although some funds 
file quarterly reports. The data include a report date (RDATE), which is the calendar day when a 
snapshot of the portfolio is recorded, and a file date (FDATE), which is a vintage date assigned 
by Thomson. Neither of the two dates corresponds to the actual filing date with the SEC. 
Thomson always assigns file dates to the corresponding quarter ends of the filings.  
Thomson identifies funds using a five-digit number (FUNDNO) but unfortunately 
numbered identifiers are reused in the data, hence we use a filter  to identify new born-funds and 
generate a unique fund identifier. We start tracki ng funds as they appear in the database, a fund 
is then classified as a new-bor n fund and assigned a new unique id entifier whenever there is a 
gap of more than 1 year between  the current report and the last available report. A gap of more Dumb money – Page 36 
 
than one year between two cons ecutive reports typically refl ects a different and unrelated 
manager or a major reorganization of the fund.  
Holding are adjusted for stock splits, stoc k distributions, merger s and acquisitions and 
other corporate events that occur between the report date and the file date. This adjustment relies 
on the assumption by Thomson that funds report shares held on a pre-adjustment basis. 
We merge the holdings with the CRSP/COMPUSTA T data and we use a series of filters 
to eliminate potential anomalies, probably due to misreporting, errors in data collecting or in 
computing adjustments. Holdings are set to missing whenever: 
1. The report date is subsequent to the file date  
2. The number of shares in a fund portfolio ex ceeds the total amount of shares outstanding 
at a particular date 
3. The total amount of shares outstanding reported by CRSP is zero at a particular date 
B. Merging Thomson and CRSP data 
The CRSP mutual fund database utilizes a five character alpha-numeric identifier (ICDI). 
Both database report funds na mes but they use a different ch aracter string with different 
abbreviations. To match the two datasets we use a matching procedure base on TICKER symbols 
and fund names, similar in spirit to the technique proposed by Wermers (2000). 
Thomson Financial reports funds tickers on a quarterly basis starting from the first 
quarter of 1999. For fund portfolios offering mul tiple share classes, multiple ticker symbols are 
provided. A combination of ticker-date typically uniquely identifies a mutual fund. First, we 
merge the two databases using a ticker-date matc h between the first quarter of 1999 and the last 
quarter of 2003. We generate a list of unique matches between the CRSP fund identifier and the Dumb money – Page 37 
 
unique identifier in the Thomson data computed  above, and extrapolate backwards for the prior 
years.  
After this initial merge, we use a “fu zzy” string matching algorithm to match the 
remaining funds.  We use a “SOUNDEX” algorith m to match funds using their name and the 
corresponding date. The SOUNDEX algorithms were  patented by Margaret I. Odell in 1918 and 
Robert C. Russell in 1922. They are based on an underlying prin ciple of English and other Indo-
European languages. That is, most of the wo rds can be reasonably represented by consonants 
alone. All the names are reduced to a phonetic equi valent character strings which can later be 
compared. We transform fund names into an al pha-numeric indicator by using the following 
steps:  
1. Retain the first letter of the fund name and discard the letters A E H I O U W Y  
2. Assign a numeric value to the following consonant: 1 →  B F P V, 2 →  C G J K 
Q S Z, 3 →  D T, 4  → L, 5 →  M N, 6 →  R 
3. Discard all duplicate classification values if they are adjacent (that is BB will 
results in the single value 1)  
 
 We use the resulting strings to match the remaining funds at every quarterly date, and we 
discard every fund for which we could not find a corresponding match. Below we show a portion 
of the matched file:  
 
 
 
date CDA 
Fund 
ID 
Thomson  name CRSP 
ICDI 
CRSP name Dumb money – Page 38 
 
12/31/2003 204 LORD ABBETT RES LG CAP S 1384 8 Lord Abbett Large Cap Research Fund/Y 
03/31/1995 205 HERITAGE SER TR-VAL EQTY 13596 Heritage Series Trust:Value Equity Fund/A 
06/30/1995 205 HERITAGE SER TR-VAL EQTY 13596 Heritage Series Trust:Value Equity Fund/A 
06/30/1995 205 HERITAGE SER TR-VAL EQTY 13598 Heritage Series Trust:Value Equity Fund/C 
09/30/1995 205 HERITAGE SER TR-VAL EQTY 13596 Heritage Series Trust:Value Equity Fund/A 
09/30/1995 205 HERITAGE SER TR-VAL EQTY 13598 Heritage Series Trust:Value Equity Fund/C 
12/31/1995 205 HERITAGE SER TR-VAL EQTY 13596 Heritage Series Trust:Value Equity Fund/A 
12/31/1995 205 HERITAGE SER TR-VAL EQTY 13598 Heritage Series Trust:Value Equity Fund/C 
09/30/2000 252 LIBERTY STRATEGIC BALANC 1272 2 Liberty Strategic Balanced Fund/B 
09/30/2000 252 LIBERTY STRATEGIC BALANC 1272 4 Liberty Strategic Balanced Fund/C 
01/31/1995 253 GOLDMAN S BALANCED FD 13706 Goldman Sachs Tr:Balanced Fund 
07/31/1995 253 GOLDMAN S BALANCED FD 13706 Goldman Sachs Tr:Balanced Fund 
01/31/1996 253 GOLDMAN S BALANCED FD 13706 Goldman Sachs Tr:Balanced Fund 
07/31/1996 253 GOLDMAN S BALANCED FD 13706 Goldman Sachs Tr:Balanced Fund 
01/31/1997 253 GOLDMAN S BALANCED FD 13706 Go ldman Sachs Equity Port:Balanced Fund/A 
07/31/1997 253 GOLDMAN S BALANCED FD 09039 Go ldman Sachs Equity Port:Balanced Fund/C 
 
In the CRSP database, if a fund has multiple sh are classes, each share class is classified 
as a separate entity. Different share classes have the same portfolio composition and are treated 
as a single fund in the Thomson database (for example fund # 205 in the table above). Therefore 
we combine multiple share classes in the CRSP da ta into a unique “super fund” by aggregating 
the corresponding net asset values, and computing the weighted average return of the fund using 
the total net asset value of the different share classes as weights.  
As a final step, to ensure matching quality, we compare the net asset values of the 
matched funds reported by CRSP to the dollar va lue of their holdings, and discard matches 
where the total asset value of the fund reporte d by CRSP differs from the sum of the dollar 
holdings value by more than 100%.  
C. Construction of the counterfactual flows  
The purpose of this exercise is to mimic a mechanic alternative allocation of the total 
flows to the universe of equity funds that ignores returns in the last k quarters, and assign to 
every existing fund a proportional share of the total flows.  Dumb money – Page 39 
 
Given out definition of flows, funds that are born have inflows equal to their initial NAV, 
while funds that die have outflows equal to their terminal NAV. We assign a counterfactual net 
asset value of zero to funds that were newly created in the past k months. New funds represent 
new flows, but in the counterfactual exercise they do not receive assets for the first k quarters. 
The universe of funds we consider when computing the counterfactual flows between date t-k 
and date t is funds there were alive at both date t-k and t.   
More specifically, consider at generic date t  and let Agg
sF   be the actual aggregate flows 
for all funds alive in quarter t (including funds who were recently born, but excluding funds that 
die in month t), for tskt ≤≤− . Let Agg
k-tN  be the lagged actual aggregate NAV aggregating only 
over those funds that exist in both month t-k and in month t. We compute the counterfactual 
flows by assigning to each fund a share of total as follows:  
Agg
s
i
s FFˆ
Agg
kt
i
kt
N
N
−
−=   (1) 
tskt ≤≤−    (2) 
For funds that die in quarter 1+s  (so that their last NAV is quarter s ), we set i
1sFˆ
+  = 
i
sNˆ−  and i
hsN +
ˆ = 0 for all 0>h .  
Table A shows a simplified example where we set k = 1 year. Fund # 3 is born in 1981, 
therefore in 1981 we register a net inflow equal to its initial NAV and set the counterfactual 
NAV to zero. In 1981 two funds are alive, fund # 1 and fund #2, and in 1980 they represented 
2/3 and 1/3 of the total fund sector. Aggregate flows in 1981 were equal to $150, hence in the 
counterfactual exercise we assign a flow of $100 to fund # 1 (as opposed to the actual realized 
flow of $50) and a flow of $50 to fund # 2. Given the return of the two funds between 1980 and Dumb money – Page 40 
 
1981, we can compute the counterfactual net asset value of fund # 1 and # 2 in 1981. Proceeding 
in the same manner whenever a fund is alive at date t-k and t, we track the evolution of the 
fund’s counterfactual NAV using the recursion:  
i
t
i
1-t
i
t FˆNˆ)1(Nˆ ++= i
tR   (3) 
Between 1982 and 1993 fund # 2 dies, hence in the counterfactual world we assign an outflow in 
1983 equal to the NAV in 1982 and set the counterfactual NAV to zero thereafter.  Note that (2) 
does not guarantee that counterfactual net asset values are always non-negative in quarters where 
we have aggregate outflows ( Agg
tF  < 0 ). In this case we override (2) , set 0Nˆi
t =  and redistribute 
the corresponding counterfactual flows to the remaining funds, to keep the total aggregate dollar 
outflow the same in both the counterfactual and actual case. Measuring FLOW ownership over 
12 quarters, negative counterfactual NAV occur for only 0.12% of the sample.  
Finally, we handle mergers as follows: we as sume that investors in the merged funds 
place their money in the surviving fund and keep  earning returns on the existing assets.  For 
consistency, when constructi ng the counterfactual NAV we also  merge the lagged NAV of the 
two funds when we compute the ratio Agg
kt
i
kt
N
N
−
− used to determined the pro-rata share to the total 
flows.  
We obtain a time series of c ounterfactual NAVs by repeating th is exercise at every date 
with a rolling window of size k .  
 
 Dumb money – Page 41 
 
Figure 1: Individual funds as a percent of the fund universe over time, using actual and 
counterfactual size 
 
x is the fund’s actual percent of dollar value of the total mutual fund universe in our sample.  
Xhat is counterfactual percent, using a horizon of twelve quarters (three years). 
 
 
-1.00 0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00
Percent
79 81 84 87 90 92 95 98 01 03
Year
xx h a t
x-xhat (flow)
Flows for Vanguard 500 Index Fund
 
 Dumb money – Page 42 
 
Figure 1, continued 
 
-0.50 0.00 0.50 1.00 1.50
Percent
84 87 90 92 95 98 01 03
Year
xx h a t
x-xhat (flow)
Flows for Janus Twenty Fund
 
 
 
-2.00 0.00 2.00 4.00 6.00 8.00
Percent
81 84 87 90 92 95 98 01 03
Year
xx h a t
x-xhat (flow)
Flows for Fidelity Magellan Fund
 Dumb money – Page 43 
 
Figure 2 
Flows, Market/Book, and Issuance for Individual Firms 
 
Flows use a three year horizon.  M/B  is defined as in Fama and French and is updated annually.  
Issuance is the split-adjusted number of shares outstanding three years ago divided by the 
number of share outstanding today (reflecting shares issued or repurchased by the firm over the 
past three years).  All variables are percentilized, by calculating their rank in the universe of all 
firms for that month. 
 
0.00 0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00
Percentile
81 84 87 90 92 95 98 01 03
Year
12-quarter Flow Is s uance
M/B Ratio
All variables percentilized
Flows, M/B, and Issuance for Alcoa
 
 Dumb money – Page 44 
 
Figure 2, continued 
 
0.00 0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00
Percentile
90 91 92 94 95 96 98 99 01 02 03
Year
12-quarter Flow Is s uance
M/B Ratio
All variables percentilized
Flows, M/B, and Issuance for Cisco Systems
 
 
 Dumb money – Page 45 
 
Table I: Flows by fund in December 1999 
Using 3 year flows, top and bottom ten ranked on difference between actual and counterfactual  
 
 
Percent of fund 
universe, actual
Percent of fund 
universe,  
counterfactual Diff 
 itx  itxˆ   
    
FIDELITY MAGELLAN FUND 3.54 4.83 -1.29 
INVESTMENT COMPANY OF AM 1.87 2.46 -0.58 
VANGUARD WINDSOR FUND 1.46 1.97 -0.51 
FIDELITY EQUITY INCOME I 0.59 1.07 -0.48 
FIDELITY CONTRAFUND 1.61 2.07 -0.46 
AIM CONSTELLATION FUND 0.64 1.05 -0.40 
AMERICAN CENT ULTRA FUND 1.46 1.84 -0.38 
FIDELITY PURITAN FUND 0.81 1.19 -0.37 
PBHG GROWTH FUND INCORPO 0.15 0.52 -0.37 
FIDELITY ASST MGR 0.44 0.77 -0.33 
    
MUNDER NET NET FUND 0.24 0.00 0.24 
FRANKLIN STRAT SML MID C 0.36 0.09 0.27 
DAVIS NEW YORK VENTURE F 0.54 0.27 0.27 
MFS MA INVESTORS TRUST 0.52 0.23 0.29 
MFS MA INVESTORS GWTH ST 0.45 0.15 0.30 
VANGUARD TOT STK MKT IND 0.74 0.30 0.44 
VANGUARD GROWTH INDEX FU 0.52 0.08 0.44 
ALLIANCE PREMIER GROWTH 0.60 0.07 0.53 
JANUS TWENTY FUND 1.23 0.62 0.61 
 
 Dumb money – Page 46 
 
Table II: Flows by stock in December 1999 
Using three year flows, top and bottom ten ranked on dollar FLOW 
 
 
 Percent owned by mutual funds  
 Actual Counterfactual  
 itz  itzˆ  FLOW
    
ALCOA INC 34.10 40.74 -6.63 
FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN 33.58 36.44 -2.86 
CENDANT CORP 30.98 39.24 -8.26 
VIACOM INC 40.16 44.34 -4.19 
FEDERATED DEPT STORES INC DEL 40.48 52.65 -12.17 
CHASE MANHATTAN CORP NEW 26.19 28.11 -1.92 
CITRIX SYSTEMS INC 33.57 44.40 -10.84 
ASSOCIATES FIRST CAPITAL CORP 42.73 48.34 -5.61 
GENERAL MOTORS CORP 20.15 22.32 -2.17 
EATON CORP 60.24 78.86 -18.62 
    
WAL MART STORES INC 10.30 9.36 0.94 
E M C CORP MA 22.14 19.49 2.64 
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 12.22 11.59 0.63 
LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC 10.51 9.08 1.43 
DELL COMPUTER CORP 11.52 8.51 3.01 
INTEL CORP 11.86 10.29 1.58 
AMERICA ONLINE INC 18.00 15.19 2.81 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC 20.03 15.80 4.24 
MICROSOFT CORP 12.55 11.30 1.25 
CISCO SYSTEMS INC 16.96 14.49 2.47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dumb money – Page 47 
 
Table III  
Determinants of flows 
 
Dependent variable is six month flows.  Independent variables are past returns, market-book, and 
corporate issuance as independent variables.  All independent variables are percentilized, by 
calculating their rank in the universe of all firms for that month.  M/B is market-book ratio 
(market value of equity divided by Compustat book value of equity).  The timing of M/B follows 
Fama and French (1993) and is as of the previous December year-end.   Issuance is the split-
adjusted number of shares outstanding three years ago divided by the number of share 
outstanding today (reflecting shares issued or repurchased by the firm over the past three years).  
Regressions include fixed time period effects.  Sample period is 1981 to 2003, and includes 
observations for June and December of each year.  Standard error, clustered by time period, in 
parenthesis. 
 
      
Lagged one 0.10    0.08 
year return (0.01)    (0.01)
      
Lagged three  0.09   0.06 
year return  (0.02)   (0.01)
      
M/B ratio   0.05  0.00 
   (0.03)  (0.02)
      
Corporate issuance    0.03 0.03 
    (0.02) (0.01)
      
Number of obs, 
thousands 
156K 141K 165K 141K 118K 
Number of semiannual periods 45 45 45 45 45 
 
  Dumb money – Page 48 
 
Table IV 
Predicting returns, univariate 
 
Monthly returns as dependent variable, and flows, past returns, market-book, and corporate 
issuance as independent variables.  All independent variables are percentilized, by calculating 
their rank in the universe of all firms for that month.  M/B is market-book ratio (market value of 
equity divided by Compustat book value of equity).  The timing of M/B follows Fama and 
French (1993) and is as of the previous December year-end.   Issuance is the split-adjusted 
number of shares outstanding three years ago divided by the number of share outstanding today 
(reflecting shares issued or repurchased by the firm over the past three years).  Characteristic 
adjusted are returns minus the returns on an equal weighted portfolio of all CRSP firms in the 
same size, market-book, and one year momentum quintile.  Regressions include fixed time 
period effects.  Sample period is 1981 to 2003.  Standard error, clustered by time period, in 
parenthesis.   
 
 Raw returns Characteristic  
adjusted returns
 Coeff. (s.e.) Coeff. (s.e.) 
     
Three month flow  0.09 (0.32) 0.18 (0.12) 
     
Six month flow -0.08 (0.33) 0.08 (0.12) 
     
One year flow -0.50 (0.20) -0.22 (0.12) 
     
Three year flow -0.90 (0.29) -0.34 (0.13) 
     
Actual mutual fund ownership, z -0.29 (0.40) 0.06 (0.13) 
     
Three year counterfactual mutual fund ownership, zˆ -0.10 (0.43) 0.10 (0.14) 
     
Lagged one year return 1.16 (0.47) 0.03 (0.02) 
     
Lagged three year return -0 .83 (0.47) -0.30 (0.23) 
     
M/B ratio -1.77 (0.34) -0.07 (0.02) 
     
Corporate issuance -0.91 (0.34) -0.46 (0.19) 
     
Six month flow, lagged six months -0.58 (0.32) -0.18 (0.13) 
     
Three year flow, lagged six months -0.84 (0.26) -0.36 (0.13) 
 Dumb money – Page 49 
 
Table V 
Predicting returns, multiple variables 
 
Raw monthly returns as dependent variable, and percentilized flows, past returns, market-book, 
and corporate issuance as independent variables.  “Larger cap stocks” are all stocks with market 
capitalization above the median of the CRSP universe that month.  Regressions include fixed 
time period effects.  Standard error, clustered by time period, in parenthesis. 
 
 All stocks, 
1983-2003
Larger cap stocks,
1983-2003 
All stocks, 
1983-1993
All stocks, 
1994-2003 
     
Three year flow -0.55 -0.41 -0.38 -0.66 
 (022) (0.21) (0.19) (0.32) 
     
Lagged one year return 1.63 1.65 1.46  1.65 
 (0.61) (0.62) (0.43) (0.86) 
     
Lagged three year return -1.42 -0.74 -0.04 -2.05 
 (0.61) (0.44) (0.62) (0.83) 
     
M/B ratio -0.52 -0.47 -0.82 -0.38 
 (0.41) (0.40) (0.36) (0.46) 
     
Corporate issuance -0.60 -0.66 -0.64 -0.61 
 (0.36) (0.30) (0.20) (0.54) 
     
Number of obs, thousands 657K 460K 240K 417K 
Number of months 249 249 129 120 
 Dumb money – Page 50 
 
Table VI 
Calendar time returns for portfolios constructed using different sorting variables. 
 
Shows the property of monthly calendar time portfolio returns.  Portfolios are equal weighted, 
constructed by going long the top 20% of stocks and short the bottom 20% of stocks. RMRF is 
returns on the CRSP value weighted portfolio minus T-bill returns.  HML is the value factor (the 
return of low M/B stocks high M/B stocks), SMB is the size factor (the return on small stocks 
minus big stocks).  There are 249 monthly return observations for three year flows from 1983-
2003. 
 
Panel A. Summary statistics 
 
 
    ------------- Co rrelations ------------- 
 Mean Std. Dev t-stat Three year Lagged one Lagged three M/B ratio
    flow year return  year return  
Sorting variable        
        
        
Three year  -0.59 2.99 3.11 1.00    
flow     
    
Lagged one 0.84 6.19 2.16 -0.12 1.00   
year return    
    
Lagged three -0.70 6.34 1.75 0.11 0.52 1.00 
year return    
    
M/B ratio -1.42 4.34 5.16 0.66 -0.17 0.00 1.00
    
        
Corporate  -0.84 4.30 3.07 0.58 -0.31 -0.53 0.71
Issuance        
        
 Dumb money – Page 51 
 
Table VI, continued 
 
Panel B. Multifactor relations and subperiods 
 
 1981-2003 1981-1993 1994-2003
Intercept 0.06 -0.37 -0.42 -0.59 -0.31 -0.89 
 (0.15) (0.15) (0.16) (0.19) (0.16) (0.35) 
       
Portfolio constructed using M/B ratio 0.45      
 (0.03)      
       
RMRF   0.03    
   (0.04)    
HML  -0.53 -0.46    
  (0.05) (0.06)    
SMB   0.11    
   (0.05)    
R2 0.43 0.35 0.36 0.00 0.00 0.00 
       
 
 
 
 Dumb money – Page 52 
 
Table VII 
Effects of flows on monthly returns for aggregate mutual fund investor 
 
Shows the property of monthly calendar time portfolio returns.  Uses three year flows.   RACTUAL 
is returns on a mimicking portfolio for the entire mutual fund sector, with portfolio weights the 
same as the actual weights of the aggregate mutual fund sector.  RNOFLOW is returns on a 
mimicking portfolio for the counterfactual mutual fund sector, with portfolio weights the same as 
the counterfactual weights of the aggregate mutual fund sector.  Tildes indicate characteristic 
adjusted returns, defined as raw returns minus the returns on a equal weighted portfolio of all 
CRSP firms in the same size, market-book, and one year momentum quintile. 
 
  Mean t-stat SR 
     
Actual excess return on mutual fund holdings R ACTUAL – RF 0.68 2.19 0.139 
     
     
Counterfactual excess return  R NOFLOW – RF 0.73 2.40 0.152 
on mutual fund holdings (three year horizon)     
     
Market excess returns R M – RF 0.62 2.26 0.143 
     
     
Net benefit of mutual funds R ACTUAL – RM 0.02 0.63 0.040 
     
     
Dumb money effect R ACTUAL – RNOFLOW -0.05 2.64 -0.167
     
     
Stock picking R NOFLOW – RM 0.08 1.86 0.077 
     
     
Net benefit of mutual funds R~ ACTUAL -0.00 0.04 -0.003
Adjusted for value, size, momentum     
     
Dumb money effect R~ ACTUAL – R~ NOFLOW -0.02 2.16 -0.137
Adjusted for value, size, momentum     
     
Stock picking R~ NOFLOW  0.02 0.58 0.037 
Adjusted for value, size, momentum     
     
The value effect HML 0.41 1.93 0.122 
     
 Dumb money – Page 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table A.1 
Hypothetic example showing counterfactual calculation 
 Year 1980 1981 1982 1983 1985
       
ACTUAL DATA FOR INDIVIDUAL FUNDS==       
       
   Returns Fund 1 10% 10% 5% 10% 5% 
 Fund 2 -5% 10% -10%   
 Fund 3   10% 10% 5% 
       
   NAV Fund 1 100 160 268 395 515 
 Fund 2 50 105 144 0 0 
 Fund 3  50 45 100 154 
       
   FLOWS Fund 1  50 100 100 100 
 Fund 2  50 50 -144 0 
 Fund 3  50 -10 50 50 
ACTUAL DATA FOR AGGREGATES=======       
   NAV Agg. 150 315 457 494 669 
   FLOW Agg. 0 150 140 6 150 
     
   NAV, last year, of funds existing this year Agg.  150 315 313 494
   FLOW of non-dying funds Agg.  150 140 150 150
       
COUNTERFACTUAL DATA=============       
       
   NAV Fund 1 100 210 292 449 591 
 Fund 2 50 105 141 0 0 
 Fund 3   22 46 79 
       
   FLOWS Fund 1  100 71 128 120 
 Fund 2  50 47 -141 0 
 Fund 3   22 22 30 
       
 