               Finance and Economics Discussion Series
       Divisions of Research & Statistics and Monetary Affairs
              Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.C.




            Zeroing in on the Expected Returns of Anomalies




                       Andrew Y. Chen and Mihail Velikov

                                              2020-039



       Please cite this paper as:
       Chen, Andrew Y., and Mihail Velikov (2020). “Zeroing in on the Expected Returns of
       Anomalies,” Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2020-039. Washington: Board of
       Governors of the Federal Reserve System, https://doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2020.039.

   NOTE: Staff working papers in the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) are preliminary
materials circulated to stimulate discussion and critical comment. The analysis and conclusions set forth
are those of the authors and do not indicate concurrence by other members of the research staff or the
Board of Governors. References in publications to the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (other than
acknowledgement) should be cleared with the author(s) to protect the tentative character of these papers.
        Zeroing in on the Expected Returns of

                                    Anomalies

               Andrew Y. Chen                           Mihail Velikov

             Federal Reserve Board              Pennsylvania State University

            andrew.y.chen@frb.gov                       velikov@psu.edu

                                           May 2020∗




                                           Abstract


       We zero in on the expected returns of long-short portfolios based on 120
       stock market anomalies by accounting for (1) effective bid-ask spreads, (2)
       post-publication effects, and (3) the modern era of trading technology that
       began in the early 2000s. Net of these effects, the average anomaly’s ex-
       pected return is a measly 8 bps per month. The strongest anomalies return
       only 10-20 bps after accounting for data-mining with either out-of-sample
       tests or empirical Bayesian methods. Expected returns are negligible de-
       spite cost optimizations that produce impressive net returns in-sample and
       the omission of additional trading costs like price impact.




  ∗
     First posted to SSRN: November 2017. This paper originated from a conversation with Svet-
lana Bryzgalova. We thank Marie Briere (HFPE discussant), Victor DeMiguel, Yesol Huh, Nina
Karnaukh, Alberto Martin-Utrera (FDU discussant), Andy Neuhierl, Steve Sharpe, Nitish Sinha,
Ingrid Tierens (Jacobs Levy discussant), Tugkan Tuzun, Michael Weber, Haoxiang Zhu, and sem-
inar participants at the Federal Reserve Board, Penn State University, University of Georgia, the
11th Annual Hedge Fund and Private Equity Research Conference, 2019 Finance Down Under
Meetings, 2019 Eastern Finance Association Meetings, and 2019 Jacobs Levy Frontiers in Quan-
titative Finance conference for helpful comments. The views expressed herein are those of the
authors and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve or the Federal Reserve System.
1.      Introduction

     The literature on stock market anomalies has documented more than one

hundred predictors of the cross-section of stock returns. Using historical data,

these papers demonstrate market-neutral returns that average around 8% per

year. These anomalies range from those based on past return patterns, to those

based purely on accounting variables, and still others based on institutional

stock holdings. Few economic risk factors or behavioral theories are so broad

that they can make a dent in this wide variety of return predictors.

     Anomalies’ expected returns, however, may be much lower than the mean

returns found in the literature. With only a couple exceptions, the literature ig-

nores trading costs, which can significantly reduce expected payoffs, and thus ex-

pected returns. Moreover, the historical data used in these papers are stale. The

literature uses data going back to the 1920s, leading to questions about whether

returns from so long ago are still relevant. Indeed, data-mining bias and investor

learning imply that returns in recent years have been much smaller (McLean and

Pontiff 2016). And the early 2000s saw a revolution in information and trading

technologies, implying that data from earlier decades may not be informative

about the future (Chordia, Subrahmanyam, and Tong 2014).

     In this paper, we zero in on the expected returns of anomalies by accounting

for both trading costs and the staleness of historical data. Our main result is that,

net of these effects, expected returns are effectively zero.

     Figure 1 illustrates how we “zero in.” To generate this figure, we replicate

120 anomaly signals, construct long-short portfolios using state-of-the-art cost

mitigation techniques, and reduce portfolio payoffs by half of the effective bid-

ask spread whenever a portfolio weight is adjusted. Each bar, moving from left to


                                          1
Figure 1: Anomaly Mean Long-Short Returns. Error bars show one standard
error.

                                         70                                                                               70




            Mean Net Return
                                         60                                                                               60


                                         50                                                                               50


                                         40                                                                               40




  Across 120 Anomalies (bps per month)
                                         30                                                                               30


                                         20                                                                               20


                                         10                                                                               10


                                          0                                                                                0
                                              Gross In-Sample   Net In-Sample       Net Post-Pub   Net Post-Pub & Post-2005



right, provides a more refined estimate of the average anomaly’s expected return.

              The first bar is the mean return before trading costs (gross return) within the

original papers’ sample periods (in-sample). In our dataset we find an impressive

66 bps per month. Accounting for trading costs reduces the expected return to 38

bps, which is still a notable 4.6% per year. Adding post-publication effects, how-

ever, results in a measly 13 bps per month. Additionally restricting the sample to

the modern era of trading technology (post-2005), we should expect a negligible

8 bps per month.1 These results omit additional trading costs such as price im-

pact and short-sale fees. Indeed, short-sale costs average 10-20 basis points per

month (Cohen, Diether, and Malloy 2007; Drechsler and Drechsler 2016), and

would wipe out the remaining profits.

              Though the average anomaly is unprofitable, perhaps the strongest anoma-

lies still offer large expected returns. Indeed, seven anomalies have mean net re-

turns in excess of 60 bps per month in the the data that is both post-publication
   1
   We thank Marie Briere for suggesting this analysis. Post-2003 and post-2004 samples lead to
similar results.


                                                                                2
and post-2005. This performance should be viewed with suspicion, however, as

some portion of it must be due to luck. Indeed, reporting only anomalies with

the largest mean returns is the very definition of data-mining.

   We find, however, that even the strongest anomalies offer negligible expected

returns. To come to this conclusion, we use two data-mining adjustments that

have distinct statistical motivations. Despite their different origins, but both ad-

justments lead to the same quantitative result.

   The first data-mining adjustment is a simple out-of-sample test. We sort

anomalies based on information available in their in-sample periods, and then

average post-publication and post-2005 net returns within quantiles. This ex-

ercise avoids using the same data to select and make inference on anomalies,

thus eliminating data-mining bias. We examine four in-sample predictors: the

net return, the net Sharpe ratio, the return reduction due to trading costs, and

turnover.

   The best expected returns come from sorting anomalies on their in-sample

net Sharpe ratios. The top quartile of has a mean net return of 21 bps per month

in post-publication and post-2005 data. But net returns are not monotonic,

and the second strongest predictor (turnover) produces at most only 14 bps per

month. Moreover, these results require using equal-weighted implementations.

Restricting our implementations to value-weighting implies expected returns of

11 bps per month, at best.

   The second data-mining adjustment uses an empirical Bayes estimator.

These estimators have been shown to effectively adjust for data-mining in a wide

variety of settings (Efron 2012; Azevedo et al. 2019; Liu, Moon, and Schorfheide

2020; Chen and Zimmermann 2019).             Such estimators compare the cross-

anomaly dispersion of mean returns to their standard errors to determine how

much dispersion is due to luck. The overall contribution of luck is estimated

                                         3
from empirical data using frequentist methods, and then adjustments for indi-

vidual anomalies are derived using Bayesian formulas, hence the name “empiri-

cal Bayes.”

   This estimation finds that most of the dispersion in mean net returns in post-

publication and post-2005 data is due to luck. As a result, even the 90th per-

centile anomaly has an expected return of 20 bps per month after adjusting for

data-mining. Even worse, implementations that use only value-weighting pro-

duce only 6 bps in the 90th percentile. These results are remarkably consistent

with our first data-mining adjustment, despite their very different methodolo-

gies.

   Our data-mining results are intuitive given the distribution of mean net re-

turns in recent data. The distribution closely resembles a standard normal dis-

tribution. Only 9% of t-stats exceed 2.0 in absolute value, not far from the 5%

implied by a standard normal. Thus, the data can be largely explained by the null

of no predictability, and returns in the right tail of the distribution are mostly due

to luck.

   These results may be surprising, as other papers find size, B/M, and mo-

mentum survive trading costs (Novy-Marx and Velikov 2016; Frazzini, Israel, and

Moskowitz 2015; Briere et al. 2019). Individual anomalies, however, have noisy

mean returns that are very sensitive to the sample period. Size, B/M, and mo-

mentum have positive net returns of 30 to 70 bps in the 1998-2013 sample stud-

ied by Frazzini, Israel, and Moskowitz (2015), but their net returns drop to be-

tween -30 and +25 bps post-2005. This change in performance is consistent with

the fact that standard errors on mean returns are around 40 bps per month for

samples of 15 years. This fragility demonstrates the importance of aggregating

across many anomalies, as we do in our paper.

   A limitation of our study is that we do not allow for combining multiple

                                          4
anomalies. Combining anomalies can improve portfolio performance, particu-

larly when accounting for trading costs (Novy-Marx and Velikov 2016, for exam-

ple). Indeed, DeMiguel et al. (Forthcoming) apply state-of-the-art optimization

techniques to 50 anomalies, and find that combining anomalies has very power-

ful effects on trading costs in the long historical sample. Combining anomalies,

however, does not allow for sharp inferences about more recent data. It is only

by averaging over 120 anomalies that we can obtain the small standard errors

in Figure 1. Indeed, our large dataset allows us to make sharp inferences about

the recent performance of the best anomalies. Both data-mining adjustments

produce standard errors on mean net returns of around 5-10 bps.

   Another limitation is that we measure trading costs with effective spreads.

Spreads are a lower bound trading cost because they correspond to the small-

est market orders, but one might argue that even lower costs can be obtained

with the strategic use of limit orders. Indeed, Frazzini, Israel, and Moskowitz

(2018) argue that traders can act as market makers and pay negative spreads,

receiving rather than paying trading costs. Acting as a market maker, however,

results in adverse selection costs (Glosten and Milgrom 1985) and execution risk

(Cont and Kukanov 2017). Moreover, theory suggests that there are fundamen-

tal trading costs that cannot be avoided regardless of the implementation (Kyle

and Obizhaeva 2016), and empirical studies find that effective bid-ask spreads

are closely related to these fundamental costs (Fong, Holden, and Tobek 2017).

   In the remainder of the Introduction, we relate our study to existing litera-

ture. Section 2 describes our methods. Section 3 presents results for the average

anomaly. Section 4 examines the strongest anomalies. We examine size, B/M,

and momentum in Section 4.3. Section 5 concludes.




                                       5
Relation to the Literature          In a closely-related study, Novy-Marx and Velikov

(2016) (NV) find that trading costs have a large effect on the mean returns of

twenty-three anomalies. However, there are several reasons why NV’s results do

not allow for inference about expected returns on the “anomaly zoo” (McLean

and Pontiff 2016; Freyberger, Neuhierl, and Weber 2017; Feng, Giglio, and Xiu

2017; etc)

      First, and foremost, the anomalies studied in NV are not representative of the

anomaly zoo. NV’s anomalies are “twenty-three of the best known, and strongest

performing, anomaly strategies.” In contrast, anomaly zoo papers like McLean

and Pontiff (2016) are drawn from a more-or-less exhaustive literature search,

and include dozens of anomalies that are not popularly known.2

      Unlike NV, our anomalies include all 68 of MP’s anomalies that allow for cost

optimization and 52 additional anomalies from Green, Hand, and Zhang (2017)

and Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2017). This large set of anomalies also differentiates

our paper from other trading cost studies, all of which examine small sets of well-

known anomalies (Frazzini, Israel, and Moskowitz 2015, and Briere et al. 2019, for

example).3 Moreover, we reconcile our results with studies of selected anoma-

lies by using data-mining adjustments. These adjustments allow us to study the

strongest anomalies using objective statistics, unlike previous papers which use

judgment to determine notable anomalies.

      The second reason NV’s results cannot be used to study expected returns is
  2
     McLean and Pontiff’s anomalies “were mostly identified with search engines such as Econlit
by searching for articles in finance and accounting journals using words such as ‘cross-section.’ ”
David McLean informed us that they also surveyed asset pricing experts to make sure they were
not missing anything.
   3
     For other trading cost studies, see Stoll and Whaley (1983), Schultz (1983), Ball, Kothari, and
Shanken (1995), Knez and Ready (1996), Pontiff and Schill (2001), Korajczyk and Sadka (2004),
Lesmond, Schill, and Zhou (2004), and Hanna and Ready (2005), McLean (2010), Hou, Kim, and
Werner (2016), Patton and Weller (2017), Frazzini, Israel, and Moskowitz (2015), and Briere et al.
(2019). For other papers on the decay of predictability over time, see Schwert (2003), Marquer-
ing, Nisser, and Valla 2006, Huang and Huang 2013, Chordia, Subrahmanyam, and Tong (2014),
Jacobs and Müller (2017), Chu, Hirshleifer, and Ma (2017), and Chen and Zimmermann (2019).



                                                 6
that NV’s trading cost exhibits a large upward bias in recent years. NV measure

trading costs using Hasbrouck’s (2009) low-frequency spreads, and as we show

in Section 2.2, low-frequency spreads are upward biased by 25-50 bps after 2003.

This bias is consistent with changes in the trading environment since decimal-

ization (Jahan-Parvar and Zikes 2019).

      We account for this bias by using high-frequency spreads from NYSE’s Trade

and Quote (TAQ) database. Spreads from TAQ serve as benchmark measures of

liquidity in the microstructure literature (Goyenko, Holden, and Trzcinka 2009;

Fong, Holden, and Trzcinka 2017), and indeed all low frequency (LF) spreads

demonstrate their validity by examining their correlations with HF spreads (Cor-

win and Schultz 2012, for example).

      Finally, it is not obvious how to combine NV’s trading cost effects with the

performance decay found in other papers. While performance decay tends to

reduce net returns in recent data, trading costs have plummeted too, with oppo-

site effects. Moreover, theories of limited arbitrage predict that performance de-

cay and trading costs interact cross-sectionally, implying that the measurement

of expected returns must be done at the anomaly level. To accommodate these

interactions, we provide the first joint study of trading costs and performance

decay that uses empirical trading cost data.4




2.       Anomalies Data, Trading Cost Measurement, and

         Portfolio Implementations

      Here we describe our methods. We begin with the anomalies data (Section

2.1), then describe trading cost measurement (Section 2.2), and then describe
  4
    Huang and Huang (2013) also examine trading costs and post-publication returns for many
anomalies and find that expected returns are positive, but they impute trading costs based on
statistics reported in the literature and study only 14 anomalies.


                                             7
our portfolio implementations (Section 2.3).



2.1.    Anomalies Data

   Our anomalies dataset is created from Chen and Zimmermann’s (2019) (CZ’s)

set of 156 cross-sectional return predictors from 115 publications in accounting,

economics, and finance journals. This dataset contains all 97 from McLean and

Pontiff (2016) and adds 59 predictors from Green, Hand, and Zhang (2017), Hou,

Xue, and Zhang (2017), and Harvey, Liu, and Zhu (2016).

   Chen and Zimmermann show that their replicated predictors perform quite

well. The average in-sample (original publication’s sample) return is 0.72% per

month, with an average t-stat of 4.3. Moreover, their in-sample returns are very

similar to hand collected statistics from the original publications, differing by

only a handful of basis points on average.

   We exclude 34 predictors that have difficult-to-evaluate trading costs. Many

of these predictors are created from event studies (such as Ritter’s (1991) study

of long-run IPO performance) that are difficult to compare with predictors that

change on a regular basis. In particular, the optimal rebalancing of event study-

based portfolios is difficult to determine, and rebalancing has a large effect when

examining trading costs. We also exclude predictors that are too discrete to be

used in our trading cost mitigation techniques such as Hong and Kacperczyk’s

(2009) sin stock classification. Continuity is important, because our most reliable

cost mitigation, the buy-hold spread, relies on the continuity of the predictor for

more efficient rebalancing.

   We also exclude the Fama and MacBeth (1973) CAPM beta and Kelly and

Jiang’s (2014) tail risk factor because some academics may object that these are

not anomalies. Nevertheless, including them has almost no effect on our results.



                                        8
      The anomalies are constructed from the usual data sources. More than half

of the predictors focus on Compustat data, and about 30% use purely price data.

Most of the remainder use analyst forecasts, though several focus on institutional

ownership data, trading volume, or specialized data (such as Gompers, Ishii, and

Metrick’s (2003) governance index). Appendix A.1 provides a list of the anoma-

lies. For further details, please see Chen and Zimmermann (2019).



2.2.      Trading Cost Measurement

      We measure returns before trading costs using the ubiquitous monthly CRSP

data. Then to adjust for trading costs, we track portfolio weights, and each time

a position is entered or exited, we assume the effective half spread is paid. This

notion of trading costs is also studied in Hanna and Ready (2005) , Korajczyk and

Sadka (2004), and Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016).

      To understand this trading cost measure, it helps to know that prices in CRSP

are predominately determined by closing auctions.5 The hypothetical anomaly

portfolios studied by academics would have added additional demand or sup-

ply to these auctions, increasing the prices for buys and decreasing the prices

for sells. These price deviations, then, would reduce returns compared to the

CRSP benchmark. Our trading cost aims to measure the minimal amount by

which these prices would have been moved.6 An alternative method for measur-

ing trading costs is to exclusively use intraday data as in Knez and Ready (1996),

but this would deviate significantly from the anomalies literature which is based

on closing auction prices.

      Our measure of the minimal price deviation is the effective half bid-ask
  5
     The     NYSE        and     NASDAQ       closing       auctions     are described   at
https://www.nyse.com/article/nyse-closing-auction-insiders-guide                       and
https://www.nasdaqtrader.com/content/productsservices/Trading//ClosingCrossfaq.pdf.
   6
     We are grateful to Haoxiang Zhu for suggesting this interpretation.



                                            9
spread—that is, the absolute difference between the trade price and the prevail-

ing quoted midpoint. Supposing that the prevailing midpoint is an unbiased

estimated of the frictionless price, a buy trade “overpays” by the effective half

spread and a sell trade receives too little by the same amount. Effective spreads

use trades that are actually executed, and typically imply smaller spreads than

quoted prices due to price improvement (Stoll 2003).

      We use high-frequency HF data to compute spreads whenever it is available.

Our HF data combines the Daily TAQ, Monthly TAQ, and ISSM datasets. Com-

putation of spreads follows Holden and Jacobsen (2014) (HJ) closely.7 To match

the monthly data frequencies used in the anomalies literature, we first aggregate

to a daily level by taking a share-weighted average of intra-day spreads, and then

aggregate across days within each month by taking a simple average following

Hanna and Ready (2005) and others. Anomaly returns are measured using end-

of-month closing prices and thus one may argue that end-of-month spreads are

a better match. However, averaging across the month ensures that our spreads

are not sensitive to outliers. For additional details see Appendix A.2.

      Our HF data provide a mostly continuous history of transactions on the NYSE

and AMEX from 1983-2016.8 These datasets are sufficient for estimating trad-

ing costs of anomalies post-publication, as 97% of anomalies are published after

1983. However, we also wish to study the effects of cost optimization, and to

avoid data-mining bias we run our optimizations on pre-publication data.

      Thus, we compute effective spreads pre-1983 (and whenever HF data is miss-

ing) using low frequency (LF) proxies based on daily CRSP data. Rather than
  7
    We are grateful to Craig Holden for providing SAS code on his website.
  8
    Data for NASDAQ stocks is somewhat shorter (1987-2016), as ISSM is missing NASDAQ data
before 1987. The older ISSM data also features several gaps in data. NASDAQ data is missing in
April and May 1987, April and July 1988, November and December 1989. In addition, there are 46
trading days with no data for NASDAQ stocks between 1987 and 1991, and 146 trading days with
no data for NYSE/AMEX. These data gaps are also found by Barber, Odean, and Zhu (2008).




                                             10
choose any particular LF proxy, we compute four different LF proxies and use

the simple average as our spread. The four LF proxies we use are Hasbrouck’s

(2009) Gibbs estimate (Gibbs), Corwin and Schultz’s (2012) high-low spread (HL),

Abdi and Ranaldo’s (2017) close-high-low spread (CHL), and Fong, Holden, and

Tobek’s (2017) implementation of Kyle and Obizhaeva (2016) invariance-based

volume-over-volatility measure (VoV).

   This approach is motivated by the idea that the LF proxies are a forecast (or

backcast) of the unobserved high frequency effective spread. The literature on

economic forecasting has shown that a simple average of forecasts (a.k.a. com-

bination forecasts) significantly outperforms individual forecasts in a wide vari-

ety of settings (Bates and Granger 1969; Timmermann 2006). This improvement

can be understood from a simple diversification argument: the predictive power

of a particular forecast varies across observations, and combining multiple fore-

casts averages out these errors. The averaging of multiple LF illiquidity proxies

is also used in Karnaukh, Ranaldo, and Soderlind (2015), who find that averag-

ing improves on using the constituent proxies alone. Indeed, we find that our LF

average outperforms any individual LF proxy in terms of its ability to match HF

data. For further details see Appendix A.3.


                               [Table 1 about here.]


   Table 1 illustrates the performance of our LF average proxy. Panel A begins

by showing that our four LF proxies, while highly correlated, still contain distinct

information. The typical correlation is around 75%, but can be as low as 0.59 (be-

tween HL and VoV). These results suggest that the logic of combination forecasts

applies here: by combining proxies we can average out their errors.

   Panels B and C shows that this logic works. These panels compare our LF

average with HF spreads when they are available. The LF average has the high-

                                        11
est correlation with TAQ spreads, at 90%. In comparison, the best individual LF

proxies are Gibbs and VoV, which both have 84% correlations with TAQ. Panel C

shows a similar result with ISSM. The LF average has an even higher 94% cor-

relation with ISSM spreads, compared to 90% for the best individual LF proxy,

CHL.

   Though LF spreads are highly correlated with HF spreads, they exhibit a

strong bias, especially in recent data. This problem is shown in Figure 2, which

plots the median difference between LF and HF spreads over time. Post-2003,

spreads are biased upward by 25-50 basis points. This bias indicates that it is im-

portant to use HF data to examine trading costs in recent years, and that the LF

trading costs used by Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016) overestimate expected costs

going forward.

                              [Figure 2 about here.]

   Figure 3 illustrates how our combined effective spread measure have evolved

over time. Trading costs rise sharply in the early 1970s as NASDAQ stocks enter

the CRSP universe. Costs rise further in the late 1980’s, a phenomenon which is

seen in other papers (Corwin and Schultz 2012; Abdi and Ranaldo 2017). Trading

costs plummet in the 2000’s as electronic trading and decimalization have im-

proved liquidity. Overall, our combined effective spread is consistent with key

features of stock market history.

                              [Figure 3 about here.]



2.3.    Portfolio Implementations

   We examine three different implementations for each anomaly: (1) aca-

demic implementations, (2) constrained cost optimizations that allow for equal-

weighting, and (3) constrained cost optimizations that enforce value-weighting.

                                        12
      Implementation is important because the more general notion of trading

costs includes not only the direct costs of trades (e.g. effective spreads), but also

the lost returns that come from avoiding the direct costs (Perold 1988). Thus, a

full accounting of trading costs requires the study of cost optimization. More-

over, the relevant implementation depends on the investor in question, so we

study two versions of our constrained optimized implementation.


2.3.1.      Academic Implementations


      Our academic implementations are simply equal-weighted long-short quin-

tiles. We sort stocks into quintiles based on the signal, equally-weight stocks, and

re-calculate portfolio weights when the signal updates.9

      This implementation represents the modal approach in the literature. Almost

all anomaly papers report either equal-weighted portfolios or equal-weighted re-

gressions, but only a minority report value-weighted portfolios (Green, Hand,

and Zhang 2013). Similarly, though the decile and quintile sorts are both fre-

quently reported, many papers that study decile sorts also combine the 9th and

10th deciles in the long leg of their hedge portfolios, suggesting that the original

authors would similarly advocate the use of quintile sorts.


2.3.2.      Constrained Optimized Implementations


      Optimal implementation with many assets and proportional trading costs is

an extremely difficult problem. Theoretical solutions have been found only by

imposing stark approximations such as uncorrelated returns (Liu 2004) or an ex-

ogenous and constant target portfolio (Leland 2000). For tractability, empirical

studies often optimize within a restricted set of linear portfolio rules (Brandt,

Santa-Clara, and Valkanov 2009; DeMiguel et al. Forthcoming; Moallemi and
  9
      For a detailed list of signal updating frequencies see Appendix A.1


                                                 13
Saglam 2017), despite the fact that theory tends to imply non-linear policies.

   We optimize within a set of simple non-linear rules that capture the intuition

from optimal theory. This set of rules is called the “buy/hold spread” (also known

as “banding”), and is best described with an example: a 20/40 buy/hold spread

goes long stocks with signals that are in the top 20th percentile, but only exits

stocks that have signals below the top 40th percentile (and similarly for the short

end). Between the 20th and 40th percentiles is an inaction region where no trad-

ing occurs.

   Inaction regions are a key feature of optimal trading under trading costs

(Magill and Constantinides 1976). Intuitively, while frictionless trading implies

that one could always benefit from trading to improve the expected return, with

frictions there are states in which the cost of trading outweighs this benefit. Em-

pirical evidence supports this intuition. Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016, 2019)

show that the buy/hold spread outperforms other rules commonly used in in-

dustry.

   Buy/hold spreads also have the advantage that they nest the standard aca-

demic implementation: a 20/20 buy/hold rule is equivalent to the standard quin-

tile sort. This feature makes it easy to interpret how our optimization improves

on the academic benchmark.

   The buy/hold spread rules only prescribe which stocks to long or short—it

does not prescribe the weights of each position. For stocks that are prescribed to

go long or short, we consider both equal-weighting and value-weighting stocks

in our optimization. This choice allows our constrained optimal implementation

to tilt toward more larger and more liquid stocks if the lower cost of trading out-

weighs the gain in expected gross returns. One could consider a more complex

weighting function, but we consider only equal- and value- weighting to avoid

overfitting.

                                        14
     Optimization proceeds in two steps. In the first step, choose the buy/hold

spread exit parameter to maximize the average in-sample net return of anoma-

lies within turnover quartiles. We apply this optimization twice: first assum-

ing equal-weighting and a buy/hold enter threshold of 20% using all stocks, and

second assuming value-weighting and a buy/hold enter threshold of 10% using

NYSE stocks only. In the second step, choose equal- or value-weighting to maxi-

mize in-sample net returns at the anomaly level. For further details see Appendix

A.4.

     When we examine cost optimizations that enforce value-weighting, we sim-

ply enforce value-weighting in the second step of the optimization.

     Our optimization is clearly constrained. We take as given a buy/hold deci-

sion rule, the enter thresholds of these rules, and only allow for equal or value

weighting. Optimizing over additional choices would, by construction, improve

performance in-sample, but would lead to more overfitting. Indeed, the fact that

our optimization dramatically improves net returns in-sample suggests that cost

of more overfitting outweighs benefits. These costs tend to be large in portfolio

choice (DeMiguel, Garlappi, and Uppal 2009, for example).

     We optimize using only in-sample information for similar reasons. Our

main object of interest is the mean net return in samples that are both post-

publication and post-2005. Optimizing using only in-sample information en-

sures that our main object of interest is not affected by data-mining bias coming

from optimization.




3.     Zeroing in on the Average Anomaly

     Having described our methods, we can now zero in on expected returns. We

begin with academic implementations because they are widely understood and


                                       15
thus are helpful for understanding how the anomaly zoo interacts with trading

costs. We then present our first main result which examines cost-optimized im-

plementations (Section 3.2).



3.1.    The Average Academic Implementation

   Table 2 shows that academic implementations offer no expected returns at

all. Though the historical gross return (in-sample) was 66 bps per month, one

should expect closer to a net return of -3 bps going forward (net of costs and

post-publication). Notably, our large set of anomalies produces a standard error

on the post-publication net return of just 5 bps.


                               [Table 2 about here.]


   Table 2 offers a few decompositions for understanding this lack of expected

returns. The post-publication row shows that roughly half of the in-sample gross

returns are eliminated by data-mining bias and changes in the investing envi-

ronment, consistent with McLean and Pontiff (2016). Though this decay is large,

post-publication data still imply a notable 30 bps per month of expected returns

(4% per year) before trading costs.

   Trading costs wipe out the remaining expected returns, however. A second

decomposition shows that this return reduction (column d) is roughly equal to

the product of 2-sided turnover (column c) and the average spread paid (column

d). As the typical anomaly turns over 15% of its long portfolio and 15% of its short

portfolio each month, the total 2-sided turnover is 30%. Multiplying this turnover

by the average paid post-publication spread of 111 bps (column d) leads to the

return reduction of 32 bps.

   The large impact of trading costs may be surprising, since decimalization im-

plies that the quoted spread on many stocks is just one penny. Dividing $0.01 by

                                        16
the typical share price of $20 leads to a tiny spread of 5 bps, far from the 111 bps

post-publication spread paid in Table 2.

   Trading costs are extremely right-skewed, however, and anomaly strategies

require trading stocks from all over the liquidity spectrum. Thus, the typical

spread paid by an anomaly strategy is more similar to the mean spread, and

much larger than the modal spread one typically sees at a brokerage.

   This skewness is seen in Figure 4, which compares distributions of spreads

in 2014. NYSE spreads (dotted line) display a mode at around 5 basis points,

consistent with the tiny spread implied by decimalization. The NYSE contains

many stocks with much larger spreads, however, as seen in the long right tail

of the distribution. Indeed, about 20% of NYSE stocks have effective spreads in

excess of 20 bps.


                                [Figure 4 about here.]


   Anomaly portfolios load up on this right tail. The distribution of spreads paid

by academic implementations in 2014 (solid line) shares the same mode as the

NYSE distribution, but the peak is only half as tall, and the missing mass is shifted

into the right tail. As a result, the mean spread paid by anomaly strategies in 2014

is 67 bps, more than 4 times the average NYSE spread of 16 bps.

   While academic portfolios tend to trade stocks that are more illiquid than

the NYSE, their trading costs are similar to that of the broad universe of stocks.

Indeed, the anomaly paid spread distribution (solid line) lines up closely with the

distribution for all stocks (dash-dotted line), and is significantly shifted to the left

compared with the distribution for the Russell 2000 (dashed line).

   Returning to Table 2, the “in-sample” row shows that academic implementa-

tions are not even profitable in-sample. Compared to post-publication results,

turnover is about the same in-sample, but the average spread paid is more than

                                          17
twice as large, and thus the return reduction doubles to 61 bps per month. This

return reduction effectively wipes out the in-sample gross return.

    These results suggest academic strategies naively trade stocks that are too

illiquid. But simply avoiding illiquid stocks may not be wise, as predictability is

much stronger in the more illiquid stocks. Indeed, Novy-Marx and Velikov (2019)

find that simply avoiding illiquid stocks also naive, as the reduction in gross re-

turns is as large or larger than the improvement in trading costs.



3.2.    The Average Cost-Optimized Anomaly

    This section presents our first main result. Here we zero in on the expected

returns of cost-optimized implementations.

    We begin by showing that our constrained optimization is very effective.

Panel B of Table 2 shows that, relative to the academic implementation, op-

timization improves in-sample net returns by 33 bps per month, leading to a

noteworthy 38 bps net return. This improvement comes from a 35% decrease

in turnover and a 38% decrease in the spreads paid, while the lost returns are just

7 bps (66 - 59 bps).

    Post-publication, however, the mean net return is just 13 bps per month. This

negligible return comes from the fact that the gross return drops to just 20 bps

post-publication. Thus, even with a miniscule return reduction of 8 bps, the net

return is tiny.

    Figure 5 provides a more graphic view of this decline in performance. This

figure shows the details of our estimates as an event study: we average net returns

across 120 anomalies within each month relative to publication (light line). The

extreme volatility of the light line is a reminder that anomalies portfolios are not

at all sure bets.



                                        18
                                      [Figure 5 about here.]


      The dark line shows the trailing 5-year moving average net return, once again

averaging across 120 anomalies. This moving average shows a sharp decline in

performance dropping from about 40 bps before publication to around 12 bps

afterwards.

      Returning to Table 2, the “Post-Pub & Post-2005” row further isolates ex-

pected returns by accounting for the change in trading technologies that hap-

pened during the early 2000s. This change saw an explosion in trading volume

and institutional activity, which implies that the data pre-2005 is unlikely to be

representative of the future (Chordia, Subrahmanyam, and Tong 2014). We ac-

count for this change by limiting the data to anomaly-months that are both post-

publication and post-2005.10 In this more refined isolation, the typical anomaly

is expected to return only 8 bps per month, with a standard error of just 4 bps.

      Even this tiny 8 bps per month may be unachievable on larger scales, as panel

B allows for equal-weighting for ease of comparison with the broader anomalies

literature. Panel C limits our cost-optimized strategies to value-weighting. There

we find 4 bps per month of expected returns. Despite the small standard error of

3 bps per month, these expected returns are statistically indistinguishable from

zero.




4.        Zeroing in the Strongest Anomalies

      We’ve seen that the average anomaly’s expected return is effectively zero. But

what should we expect from the strongest anomalies? This section presents our

second main result: the strongest anomalies’ expected returns are only 10-20 bps

per month.
 10
      Using only post-2003 or post-2004 data leads to very similar results.


                                                 19
     To come to this result, we need to account for data-mining bias. To under-

stand this, it helps to examine the heterogeneity in post-publication and post-

2005 (“post-pub05”) mean net returns, shown in Figure 6. Some anomalies have

notable net returns. Cash flow to price (CF2Price), tangibility (Tangibili), and

momentum for young firms (MomYoung) all produce net returns in excess of 80

bps per month in this recent sample.


                                    [Figure 6 about here.]


     A portion of these large net returns is due to data-mining bias, however. This

bias is clearly seen if we break down the mean post-pub05 net return of predictor

i into two components


                                            r¯i = µi + ²i                              (1)


where r¯i is the observed mean, µi is the true expected return, and ²i is a zero

mean noise term due to sampling variability. And suppose we define large net

returns as those where r¯i is larger than the 80th percentile r¯80 . Then the condi-

tional expectation for large net returns is


                     E(r¯i |r¯i > r¯80 ) = E(µi |r¯i > r¯80 ) + E(²i |r¯i > r¯80 ) .   (2)
                                                                |       {z      }
                                                                       >0


The noise term E(²i |r¯i > r¯80 ) is positive because mining for large mean returns

also selects for large realizations of noise. As a result, the mean returns in the

right tail E(r¯i |r¯i > r¯80 ) are upward biased compared to their true returns E(µi |r¯i >

r¯80 ).

     We examine two approaches to removing the bias E(²i |r¯i > r¯80 ). Section 4.1

uses an out-of-sample test, and Section 4.2 uses an empirical Bayesian adjust-

ment. Though the methods are very different, they lead to very similar results.

                                                  20
4.1.    Data-Mining Adjustments Using Out-of-Sample Tests

    A simple way to remove the bias in Equation (2) is with an out-of-sample test.

Specifically, we sort anomalies based on in-sample predictors, and then measure

post-pub05 net returns within quantiles to measure conditional expectations.

This exercise ensures that the data used to select anomalies is not the same as

that used to evaluate them, thus eliminating data-mining bias.

    Formally, suppose we use net returns as the in-sample predictor, and focus

on anomalies above the 80th percentile r¯IS,80 . Then the conditional expectation

of the post-pub05 net return is


                  E(r¯i |r¯i > r¯IS,80 ) = E(µi |r¯i > r¯IS,80 ) + E(²i |r¯i > r¯IS,80 )   (3)

                                       = E(µi |r¯i > r¯IS,80 ),                            (4)


where E(²i |r¯i > r¯IS,80 ) = 0 because monthly stock returns are nearly i.i.d. and thus

sampling error in the mean ²i is uncorrelated across the two, non-overlapping

samples. The sample analogue of E(r¯i |r¯i > r¯IS,80 ), then, provides an unbiased

estimate of the true expected return E(µi |r¯i > r¯IS,80 ).

    We consider the following in-sample predictors: the mean net return, net

Sharpe ratio, return reduction from trading costs, and turnover. In-sample net

returns would predict post-pub05 net returns if µi is persistent across samples,

and Sharpe ratios would predict for similar reasons. Trading costs should predict

because net returns are the difference between gross returns and trading costs,

and once again trading costs may be persistent. Turnover, finally, may predict as

it is one of the components of trading costs.

    Table 3 shows the results. The table shows the mean post-pub05 net return

of anomalies grouped by predictor quartiles. Predictability is weak and fragile.



                                                   21
In implementations that allow for equal-weighting (panel A), the best net re-

turns come from using the net Sharpe ratio, with the top quartile producing ex-

pected returns of 21.2 bps per month. But the net returns from this sort are not

monotonically increasing, and indeed, three out of four predictors fail to pro-

duce monotonicity. Moreover, the second strongest predictor (Turnover) pro-

duces only 14.3 bps per month in its top quartile.


                                  [Table 3 about here]


    Predictability is even essentially gone when using only value-weighting

(Panel B). The net Sharpe ratio sort is very fragile, with the second quartile per-

forming much better than the first and third, suggesting that the 11.4 bps in its

top quartile cannot be trusted. Indeed, only turnover seems to produce a reliable

improvement in mean returns, and it only leads to a statistically insignificant 9.7

bps per month in its top quartile.

    Overall, post-pub05 mean net returns show little predictability in out-of-

sample tests. Taken together, these results lead us to conclude that the strongest

anomalies offer at most 10-20 bps per month, once data-mining bias is ac-

counted for.



4.2.    Data-Mining Adjustments Using Empirical Bayes

    As an alternative data-mining adjustment, we study an “empirical Bayesian”

estimator. This method can be motivated by Equation (2). Bias comes from

the noise term E(²i |r¯i > r¯80 ). Thus, one can remove bias by directly estimating

E(µi |r¯i > r¯80 ). In other words, what the econometrician really wishes to know is

µi for the strongest anomalies, and thus our goal is not the conditional sample

mean E(r¯i |r¯i > r¯80 ), but the conditional expectation of true returns E(µi |r¯i > r¯80 ).



                                             22
Given an estimated model, Bayes rule provides the logic for computing this ex-

pectation. And to generate an estimated model, we specify a DGP and fit it to

empirical data using frequentist methods. This combination of empirical fre-

quentist methods and Bayesian logic gives the name “empirical Bayes.” Empiri-

cal Bayes has been shown to effectively remove data-mining bias in a variety of

settings (Efron 2011; Azevedo et al. 2019; Liu, Moon, and Schorfheide 2020).

   We first develop the adjustment and then examine adjusted expected returns.

Throughout this section, we refer to mean returns that are post-publication,

post-2005, and net of trading costs. For ease of reading, we drop all of the quali-

fiers in what follows (“Sharpe ratio” refers to the post-publication, post-2005, net

Sharpe ratio).


4.2.1.   Empirical Bayes Methodology


   The Sharpe ratio for predictor i is normally distributed around the true

Sharpe ratio


                              r¯i      µi
                                     µ               ¶
                                  ∼N      , SE (SRi ) ,                          (5)
                              σi       σi


where σi is the volatility of net returns and SE (SRi ) is the standard error for

Sharpe ratio i . The normal distribution is justified by the central limit theorem

and the fact that the sample sizes are in the order of hundreds. We assume Sharpe

ratios are uncorrelated across predictors, consistent with the near-zero median

correlation in returns across anomalies (McLean and Pontiff 2016; Green, Hand,

and Zhang 2014; Chen and Zimmermann 2019).

   Modeling Sharpe ratios rather than mean returns effectively rescales portfo-

lios to have the same volatility. We find that modeling mean returns leads to even

smaller expected returns, consistent with the strong performance of net Sharpe


                                        23
ratios as in Table 3.

      We assume σi is observed. This assumption can be justified by the small stan-

dard error in sample volatility for samples of 360 months.11 Under this assump-

tion and the standard assumption of zero autocorrelation in monthly returns,
                              p
SE (SRi ) = SE (r¯i ) /σi = 1/ Ti .

      True Sharpe ratios are location-scale t-distributed


                                      µi
                                         ∼ t µSR , σSR , νSR ,
                                            ¡                  ¢
                                                                                                (6)
                                      σi


where µSR is the location (mean), σSR is the scale (dispersion), νSR is the degrees

of freedom parameter. This bell-shaped distribution is consistent with the data

(Figure 6). Using a t-distribution allows for fat tails and thus the idea that there

may be a few predictors that are truly exceptional.

      Equations (5) and (6) summarize the model. The model has just three param-

eters: µSR , σSR , and νSR . For simplicity, we fix νSR at different values to examine

how our results change.

      Given νSR , method of moments implies a simple estimate (Xie, Kou, and

Brown 2012)12


                      1 N
                        X r¯i
              µ̂SR ≡                                                                            (8)
                      N i =1 σi
                           (µ          ¶"                   ¶2           # )
                              ν               N   ¯
                                                  r                N
                                                µ
                                SR − 2    1         i          1      1
              σ̂2SR ≡ max                             − µ̂SR −
                                            X                    X
                                                                          ,0 .                  (9)
                                νSR       N i =1 σi            N i =1 Ti
 11                                                                                       σ
     If the monthly return is normally distributed, then sample volatility is σ̂i = p i χT −1 . Then
                                                                                     T −1
the standard error of σ̂i = 0.037s for a sample size of 30 years.
  12
     To see this, note

                   E (r¯i /σi − µSR )2 = E (µi /σi − µSR )2 + (µi /σi − µSR )δi + δ2i ,
                    £                 ¤   £                                          ¤
                                                                                                 (7)

where δi is a noise term. The cross term drops out, and then population moments are replaced
by sample moments to arrive at (7). Restricting the parameter set to positive σ2SR results in the
max operation.




                                                   24
Intuitively, the grand mean is estimated using the average of all Sharpe ra-

tios, and the scale parameter is estimated as the dispersion in Sharpe ratios
         ³            ´2
           r¯i
 1 PN
                 µ̂      that cannot be accounted for by noise N1 iN=1 T1 . Finally, the
                                                                    P
N    i =1 σi   −   SR                                                    i
          νSR −2
        ³        ´
factor ν           adjusts for the assumed fat tail parameter νSR .
          SR


   Given estimated parameters, we calculate the bias-adjusted expected return

for predictor i with


                                 µ̂i ¯¯
                                 ·                                 ¸
                         µ̂i ≡ E      ¯r¯i , σi , µ̂SR , σ̂SR , νSR σi .           (10)
                                 σi


That is, the bias adjusted return is the conditional expectation of the true Sharpe

ratio given all available information, rescaled by volatility. We rescale by volatility

for ease of comparison with our other results.

   Equation (10) is free of data-mining bias, even for predictors with large r¯i .

This feature comes from the fact Equation (10) already conditions on all available

information. This property is sometimes considered a paradox (Dawid 1994),

but Senn (2008) demonstrates that it is entirely logical. Indeed, the removal of

data-mining bias using estimations analogous to Equation (10) has been demon-

strated in numerous settings (Efron 2011; Azevedo et al. 2019; Liu, Moon, and

Schorfheide 2020; Chen and Zimmermann 2019).

   The mechanics of the adjustment can be seen in the special case νSR → ∞. In

this case, normal-normal updating formulas imply


                                µ̂i = ŝ i µ̂SR σi + (1 − ŝ i )r¯i                (11)


where the “shrinkage” ŝ i is given by


                                                  1/Ti
                                     ŝ i ≡               .                        (12)
                                              σ̂SR + 1/Ti
                                                2




                                                25
Intuitively, we shrink large r¯i toward the grand mean µ̂SR σi . Predictors with

smaller samples are shrunk more, as they are more vulnerable to data-mining

bias. The overall shrinkage is determined by σ̂SR , where in the extreme case that

there is no dispersion in true Sharpe ratios, shrinkage is 100%. Equation (11)

shows our estimator is closely related to the celebrated James and Stein (1961)

estimator. Thus, similar estimators can also be derived from quadratic loss argu-

ments, as well as Galtonian reverse regression (Stigler 1990).


4.2.2.   Empirical Bayes Results


   Table 4 describes the estimation results and bias adjusted returns. Panel A

shows our baseline cost optimizations, which allow for equal-weighting. There

we find that assuming that true Sharpe ratios are approximately normal, (νSR =

100), the standard deviation of true Sharpe ratios is 0.20 (annualized). Consid-

ering that the mean standard error on the observed net Sharpe ratio is 0.35, this

implies that the adjustment is very large (Equation (11)). Indeed, 80th and 90th

percentile adjusted net post-pub05 returns are only about 20 bps per month.

Assuming that true Sharpe ratios are fat tailed (νSR = 4) has almost no effect

on the results. These results are quantitatively very similar to those from our

predictability-based adjustment (Table 3).


                              [Table 4 about here.]


   Bias adjustments for implementations that only use value-weighting (Panel

B) are even stronger. Indeed, our estimates imply that there is no dispersion

of true Sharpe ratios at all. This result comes from the fact that the dispersion

in observed Sharpe ratios is smaller than the average standard error, and thus

method of moments hits the positivity constraint on σSR . In other words, all

value-weighted anomalies have the same true Sharpe ratios, and the strongest

                                        26
expected returns come only from taking on more volatility. As a result, the 90th

percentile of adjusted net post-pub returns is just 6.4 bps per month. This result

is also consistent with our predictability results, where we saw that no in-sample

information is a reliable predictor of post-pub05 net returns.

   The intuition for these results can be seen in Figure 6. Only 11 out of 120

anomalies produce t-stats > 2.0 in absolute value, not far from the 6 implied by

a model in which there is no predictability (σSR = µSR = 0). As a result, noise

can account for most of the heterogeneity in post-pub05 performance, Bayesian

logic implies that bias adjustments are large, leading to our finding that even the

strongest anomalies offer only 10-20 bps of expected returns.



4.3.    Performance of Size, B/M, and Momentum

   Objective statistics show that the strongest anomalies provide little expected

returns. But these results group famous anomalies like size, B/M, and momen-

tum with lesser known ones from the broader anomaly zoo. This section exam-

ines the performance of size, B/M, and momentum and compares our results

with the literature, which tends to focus on these well-known anomalies.

   We find that size, B/M, and momentum have unremarkable performance, in-

line with the broader anomaly zoo in post-pub05 samples. This can be seen in

Figure 6, in which B/M is represented by “BM,” and momentum is represented

by “Mom12m.” These famous anomalies lie in the middle of the distribution,

centered around zero.

   Table 5 takes a closer look at these anomalies. Our baseline results emphasize

the post-pub05 sample, in which size, B/M, and momentum net -26 bps, 33 bps,

and 16 bps, respectively. This sample corresponds to 2006-2016, as size, B/M,

and momentum are all published before our post-2005 period begins.



                                        27
   This poor performance appears to conflict with those of other papers, which

often find that these select anomalies perform well net of costs. In particular,

Frazzini, Israel, and Moskowitz (2015) (FIM) conclude that “size, value, and mo-

mentum — are robust, implementable, and sizeable in the face of transactions

costs.”


                               [Table 5 about here.]


   FIM’s conclusions, however, come from examining long historical samples

going back to 1926, and mean net returns are highly sensitive to the sample pe-

riod. Indeed, FIM’s results for the 1998-2013 sample show more of a mixed result.

We reprint these results in the “FIM (2015)” column of Table 5. There we see that

in the more recent data, size and B/M have notable net returns, but momentum

has a slightly negative net return.

   This sensitivity is also seen in using our methodology. While size, B/M, and

momentum are unremarkable post 2006, they seem to have above-average per-

formance 1998-2013, as seen in the 3rd column of Table 5. Indeed, this earlier-

sample performance is as good or better than those reported by FIM for the same

sample period.

   Consistent with these fragile results, Table 5 shows that individual anoma-

lies produce huge standard errors of 30-60 bps per month. This sampling noise

makes it impossible to tell if the any individual anomaly has strong performance

in the modern era trading technology. Indeed, our post-2005 net returns are not

statistically different than any of the other results shown in the table.

   Overall, Table 5 highlights the importance of studying a large set of anoma-

lies for making inference about expected returns. The performance of individual

anomalies is very noisy in the post-2005 period. It is only by aggregating infor-

mation over many anomalies that we can make precise measurements of what

                                         28
we should expect after excluding stale data.




5.      Conclusion

     We zero in on the expected returns of anomalies by accounting for trading

costs and the staleness of historical data. Net of these effects, the expected return

on even the best anomalies is effectively zero.

     This conclusion comes from applying data-mining adjustments to data that

includes high-frequency trading costs and a large set of anomalies.           High-

frequency data is necessary as low-frequency spreads are biased upward in re-

cent years. A large set of anomalies is required as individual anomaly returns are

very noisy after excluding stale data. Finally, data-mining adjustments are re-

quired to control for the bias the comes from selecting the best anomalies. Our

study is unique in combining these datasets and methods.

     In combination with recent findings, our results provide a complete account-

ing for the average return on the anomaly zoo. Previous papers show that the

gross return is about 15% publication bias (McLean and Pontiff 2016; Chen and

Zimmermann 2019). We find that trading costs account for another 40%, and

that the remaining net returns (45%) are traded away over time, consistent with

the idea that mispricing is removed as information proliferates and technology

improves (Chordia, Subrahmanyam, and Tong 2014; McLean and Pontiff 2016).

     This decomposition paints a picture of a dynamic equilibrium process, but

one more in line with Lo’s (2004) adaptive market hypothesis or “efficiently inef-

ficient” markets (Grossman and Stiglitz 1980; Gârleanu and Pedersen 2018) than

standard dynamic equilibrium models (Campbell and Cochrane 1999). Every

month, researchers find imperfections in the existing market equilibrium. As

information about predictability diffuses and trading technology improves, the


                                         29
net returns of these imperfections are traded away, leading to a new equilibrium.




                                       30
A.     Appendix

A.1.    Description of the Anomaly Dataset


                            Table A.1: List of Cross-Sectional Return Predictors Part 1/3

This table lists the anomalies in our dataset. For further details, please see the Appendix of Chen and Zimmermann (2019).
Freq lists the rebalancing frequencies we assume.


             Acronym         Description                             Freq               Publication
             AccrAbn         Abnormal Accruals                        A     Xie                       2001 AR
             AccrOper        Percent Operating Accruals               A     Hafzalla et al            2011 AR
             AccrPct         Percent Total Accruals                   A     Hafzalla et al            2011 AR
             Accruals        Accruals                                 A     Sloan                     1996 AR
             AdExpGr         Growth in advertising expenses           A     Lou                       2014 RFS
             AnnounRet       Earnings announcement return             Q     Chan et al                1996 JF
             AssetCGr        Change in current operating assets       A     Richardson et al          2005 JAE
             InvestAG        Asset Growth                             A     Cooper et al              2008 JF
             ATurn           Asset Turnover                           A     Soliman                   2008 AR
             BEgrowth        Sustainable Growth                       A     Lockwood Prombutr         2010 JFR
             BetaSquared     CAPM beta squred                         M     Fama MacBeth              1973 JPE
             BidAskSpread    Bid-ask spread                           M     Amihud Mendelsohn         1986 JFE
             BM              Book to market                           A     Fama French               1992 JF
             BMent           Enterprise component of BM               A     Penman et al              2007 JAR
             BMlev           Leverage component of BM                 A     Penman et al              2007 JAR
             CAPXgr          Change in capex (two years)              A     Anderson Garcia-Feijoo    2006 JF
             Cash            Cash to assets                           Q     Palazzo                   2012 JFE
             CF2Price        Cash flow to market                      A     Lakonishok et al          1994 JF
             CFOper2Price    Operating Cash flows to price            A     Desai et al               2004 AR
             DebtFinC        Composite debt issuance                  A     Lyandres Sun Zhang        2008 RFS
             DeferRev        Deferred Revenue                         A     Prakash Sinha             2012 CAR
             DepGr           Change in depreciation to gross PPE      A     Holthausen Larcker        1992 JAE
             EarnCons        Earnings Consistency                     Q     Alwathainani              2009 BAR
             EarnSupBig      Earnings surprise of big firms           M     Hou                       2007 RFS
             EarnSurp        Earnings Surprise                        Q     Foster et al              1984 AR
             EffFrontier     Efficient frontier index                 A     Nguyen Swanson            2009 JFQA
             EntMult         Enterprise Multiple                      A     Loughran Wellman          2011 JFQA
             EP              Earnings-to-Price Ratio                  A     Basu                      1977 JF
             EPforecast      Earnings Forecast                        M     Elgers Lo Pfeiffer        2001 AR
             EPSDisp         EPS Forecast Dispersion                  M     Diether et al             2002 JF
             EPSForeLT       Long-term EPS forecast                   M     La Porta                  1996 JF
             EPSrevise       Earnings forecast revisions              M     Chan et al                1996 JF
             Eq2AGr          Change in equity to assets               A     Richardson et al          2005 JAE
             ExcludExp       Excluded Expenses                        M     Doyle et al               2003 RAS
             ExtFinNet       Net external financing                   A     Bradshaw et al            2006 JAE
             FailurePr       Failure probability                      Q     Campbell et al            2008 JF
             FinLiabGr       Change in financial liabilities          A     Richardson et al          2005 JAE
             GIndex          Governance Index                         A     Gompers et al             2003 QJE
             GM2SaleGr       Gross Margin growth over sales growth    A     Abarbanell Bushee         1998 AR
             Herf            Industry concentration (Herfindahl)      A     Hou Robinson              2006 JF
             High52          52 week high                             M     George Hwang              2004 JF
             IdioVol         Idiosyncratic risk                       M     Ang et al                 2006 JF
             Illiquid        Amihud’s illiquidity                     M     Amihud                    2002 JFM
             IndMom          Industry Momentum                        M     Grinblatt Moskowitz       1999 JFE
             IndRetBig       Industry return of big firms             M     Hou                       2007 RFS
                 Table A.2: List of Cross-Sectional Return Predictors Part 2/3


Acronym            Description                                Freq              Publication
InstOwnSI          Inst own among high short interest          Q     Asquith Pathak Ritter    2005 JFE
IntanBM            Intangible return using BM                  A     Daniel Titman            2006 JF
IntanCFP           Intangible return using CFtoP               A     Daniel Titman            2006 JF
IntanEP            Intangible return using EP                  A     Daniel Titman            2006 JF
IntanSP            Intangible return using Sale2P              A     Daniel Titman            2006 JF
InvestGr           Change in capital inv (ind adj)             A     Abarbanell Bushee        1998 AR
Invntory           Inventory Growth                            A     Thomas Zhang             2002 RAS
InvToRev           Investment to revenue                       A     Titman et al             2004 JFQA
KZ                 Kaplan Zingales index                       A     Lamont et al             2001 RFS
LaborGr            Employment growth                           A     Bazdresch Belo Lin       2014 JPE
Leverage           Market leverage                             A     Bhandari                 1988 JFE
LiabCGr            Change in current operating liabilities     A     Richardson et al         2005 JAE
LTAssetGr          Change in Noncurrent Operating Assets       A     Soliman                  2008 AR
LTNOAgr            Growth in Long term net operating assets    A     Fairfield et al          2003 AR
MaxRet             Maximum return over month                   M     Bali et al               2010 JF
Mom12m             Momentum (12 month)                         M     Jegadeesh Titman         1993 JF
Mom12to7           Intermediate Momentum                       M     Novy-Marx                2012 JFE
Mom1813            Momentum-Reversal                           M     De Bondt Thaler          1985 JF
Mom1m              Short term reversal                         M     Jegedeesh                1989 JF
Mom36m             Long-run reversal                           A     De Bondt Thaler          1985 JF
Mom6Jnk            Junk Stock Momentum                         M     Avramov et al            2007 JF
Mom6m              Momentum (6 month)                          M     Jegadeesh Titman         1993 JF
MomVol             Momentum and Volume                         M     Lee Swaminathan          2000 JF
MomYoung           Firm Age - Momentum                         M     Zhang                    2004 JF
NDebtFin           Net debt financing                          A     Bradshaw et al           2006 JAE
NDebtPrice         Net debt to price                           A     Penman et al             2007 JAR
NEqFin             Net equity financing                        A     Bradshaw et al           2006 JAE
NOA                Net Operating Assets                        A     Hirshleifer et al        2004 JAE
NPayYield          Net Payout Yield                            A     Boudoukh et al           2007 JF
NWCgr              Change in Net Working Capital               A     Soliman                  2008 AR
OperLeverage       Operating Leverage                          A     Novy-Marx                2010 ROF
OptVol             Option Volume to Stock Volume               M     Johnson So               2012 JFE
OptVolGr           Option Volume relative to recent average    M     Johnson So               2012 JFE
OrderBacklog       Order backlog                               A     Rajgopal et al           2003 RAS
OrgCap             Organizational Capital                      A     Eisfeldt Papanikolaou    2013 JF
OScore             O Score                                     A     Dichev                   1998 JFE
PayYield           Payout Yield                                A     Boudoukh et al           2007 JF
PensionFunding     Pension Funding Status                      A     Franzoni Marin           2006 JF
PMGrowth           Change in Profit Margin                     A     Soliman                  2008 AR
Price              Price                                       M     Blume Husic              1972 JF
PriceDelay         Price delay                                 M     Hou Moskowitz            2005 RFS
ProfCash           Cash-based operating profitability          A     Ball et al               2016 JFE
ProfGross          gross profits / total assets                A     Novy-Marx                2013 JFE
ProfitMargin       Profit Margin                               A     Soliman                  2008 AR
ProfOper           operating profits / book equity             A     Fama French              2006 JFE
            Table A.3: List of Cross-Sectional Return Predictors Part 3/3


Acronym           Description                            Freq              Publication
RDirtSurp         Real dirty surplus                      A     Landsman et al           2011 AR
RealEstate        Real estate holdings                    A     Tuzel                    2010 RFS
RetConglomerate   Conglomerate return                     M     Cohen Lou                2012 JFE
Rev2Price         Sales-to-price                          A     Barbee et al             1996 FAJ
RevG2InvG         Sales growth over inventory growth      A     Abarbanell Bushee        1998 AR
RevG2OHG          Sales growth over overhead growth       A     Abarbanell Bushee        1998 AR
RevGrowth         Revenue Growth Rank                     A     Lakonishok et al         1994 JF
RevSurprise       Revenue Surprise                        Q     Jegadeesh Livnat         2006 JFE
RoA               earnings / assets                       Q     Balakrishnan et al       2010 JAE
RoE               net income / book equity                A     Haugen Baker             1996 JFE
Seasonality       Return Seasonality                      M     Heston Sadka             2008 JFE
ShareIs1          Share issuance (5 year)                 A     Daniel Titman            2006 JF
ShareIs5          Share issuance (1 year)                 A     Pontiff Woodgate         2008 JF
VolumeShare       Share Volume                            Q     Datar Naik Radcliffe     1998 JFM
ShortInterest     Short Interest                          Q     Dechow et al             2001 JFE
Size              Size                                    A     Banz                     1981 JFE
OSmirkNTM         Volatility smirk near the money         M     Xing Zhang Zhao          2010 JFQA
OSmirkCP          Put volatility minus call volatility    M     Yan                      2011 JFE
Tangibility       Tangibility                             A     Hahn Lee                 2009 JF
Tax2E             Taxable income to income                A     Lev Nissim               2004 AR
TaxGr             Change in Taxes                         Q     Thomas Zhang             2011 JAR
ATurnGr           Change in Asset Turnover                A     Soliman                  2008 AR
TurnovVol         Share turnover volatility               M     Chordia et al            2001 JFE
CF2Pvar           Cash-flow to price variance             A     Haugen Baker             1996 JFE
Volume2Mkt        Volume to market equity                 M     Haugen Baker             1996 JFE
VolumeDol         Past trading volume                     M     Brennan et al            1998 JFE
VolumeSD          Volume Variance                         M     Chordia et al            2001 JFE
VolumeTrend       Volume Trend                            M     Haugen Baker             1996 JFE
ZeroTrade         Days with zero trades                   M     Liu                      2006 JFE
ZScore            Altman Z-Score                          A     Dichev                   1998 JFE
A.2.     Details of High Frequency Data

   The HF effective spread for the kth trade of a given stock is


                   [Effective Spread]k = 2| log(P k ) − log(M k )|,          (13)


where P k is the price of the kth trade and M k is the midpoint of the matched

consolidated best bid and offer (BBO) quote.

   We use Daily TAQ (DTAQ) data with its milli-nanosecond time-stamps when-

ever it is available (October 2003 to December 2016). Holden and Jacobsen (2014)

find that DTAQ leads to a more accurate and precise measurement of effective

spreads in the modern market environment relative to the Monthly TAQ (MTAQ)

data with its second-level time stamps.

   DTAQ spreads use Holden and Jacobsen’s (2014) (HJ’s) HJ’s DTAQ code. ISSM

and MTAQ spreads use HJ’s monthly code. For pre-1999 data, we add a 2 second

delay to the HJ interpolation-matching algorithm. For data in 1999-2002 we use

the 1 millisecond delay following HJ’s MTAQ code.

   In addition to the data screens used by HJ, we also discard any spreads > 40%

at the trade level (before averaging), following Abdi and Ranaldo (2017). We also

adapt the mode screens to ISSM data following Lou and Shu (2014).

   The details of the data cleaning are described below.


A.2.1.   ISSM Data Details


   We adapt HJ’s MTAQ code to calculate ISSM spreads.

   One of HJ’s screens deletes quotes in which the offer or bid size are ≤ 0 or

missing. These depth fields are missing or appear to have errors in some sub-

samples of the data, and we choose not to apply this screen on these subsamples.


                                         34
NASDAQ stocks in ISSM from 1987-1989 are all missing depth data. Roughly half

of the stocks in MTAQ from January 1, 1993 to April 5, 1993 (inclusive) are have

zero for all observations of depth, while close to 0% of stocks are have zeros be-

ginning April 6. HJ use the depth screen in order to avoid withdrawn quotes.

We choose to not use the depth screen on these subsamples, as the noise in

LF spreads is likely to be much larger than the errors introduced by withdrawn

quotes.

   Quotes are excluded if any of the following hold:

    • Time is before 9:00 am or after 4:00 pm
    • if mode in (C, D, F, G, I, L, N, P, S, V, X, Z)
    • BID>OFR and BID>0 and OFR>0
    • BID>0 and OFR=0
    • OFR-BID>5 and BID>0 and OFR>0
    • OFR ≤ 0 or missing
    • BID ≤ 0 or missing
    • ofrsize ≤ 0 or missing
    • bidsize ≤ 0 or missing.


NASDAQ listed stocks from 1987-1989 and NYSE listed stocks in 1986 are not

subject to the size filters as they are all missing ofrsize and bidsize.

   Trades are kept if all of the following hold

    • Time is after 9:30 am and before 4:00 pm
    • Price > 0
    • Type = T
    • Cond not in (C, L, N, R, O, Z) and Size > 0
    • From TAQ and correction field is zero


   We add a 2-second interpolated delay using Holden and Jacobsen’s (2014)

interpolation code.




                                             35
A.2.2.   MTAQ Data Details


   We follow HJ’s MTAQ code to calculate MTAQ spreads. MTAQ data spans Jan

1, 1993 to Dec 31, 2014 with trades and quotes timestamped to the second.

   Quotes are excluded if any of the following hold:

   • Time is before 9:00 am or after 4:00 pm
   • if mode in (4,7,9,11,13,14,15,19,20,27,28)
   • BID>OFR and BID>0 and OFR>0
   • BID>0 and OFR=0
   • OFR-BID>5 and BID>0 and OFR>0
   • OFR ≤ 0 or missing
   • BID ≤ 0 or missing
   • ofrsiz ≤ 0 or missing
   • bidsiz ≤ 0 or missing.


Data from January 1, 1993 to April 5, 1993 are not subject to the size filters be-

cause about 50% of stocks have zero for all observations of ofrsize and bidsize

during this period. In contrast, close to 0% have zeros beginning April 6, 1993,

suggesting there are errors for bid and offer sizes at the beginning of the MTAQ

data.

   Trades are kept if all of the following hold

   • Time is after 9:30 am and before 4:00 pm
   • Price > 0
   • Type = T
   • Corr = 0


   Following Holden and Jacobsen (2014), we delay quotes as follows:


   • Add 2 second interpolated delay pre-1999


   • Add 1 millisecond interpolated delay based on HJ for 1999-2002


                                        36
A.2.3.   DTAQ data details


   We exactly follow HJ’s DTAQ code to calculate DTAQ spreads. DTAQ spans

Sep 10, 2003 to the present with trades, quotes, and NBBOs originally times-

tamped to the millisecond. On Aug 25, 2015 the Daily TAQ timestamps were

switched to the microsecond and on Oct 24, 2016 the Daily TAQ timestamps

were switched to the nanosecond. Our DTAQ code uses nanosecond timestamps

throughout even though some of the trailing digits will be zeros during the mil-

lisecond and microsecond eras.

   Observations in the DATQ NBBO and quote file are excluded if any of the

following hold:

    • Qu_Cond not in (A, B, H, O, R, W)
    • Ask ≤ 0 or missing
    • Ask size ≤ 0 or missing
    • Bid ≤ 0 or missing
    • Bid size ≤ 0 or missing


Observations in the DTAQ NBBO are also excluded if Qu_Cancel = B. Observa-

tions in the quote file are also excluded if Bid > Ask or Bid - Ask > 5.

   We also keep only quotes that meet the following additional restrictions:

    • (Qu_Source = C and NatBBO_Ind=1) or (Qu_Source = N and
      NatBBO_Ind=4)
    • sym_suffix = ”
    • Time is between 9:00 am and 4:00 pm


   Trades are kept if the all of the following hold:

    • Tr_Corr = 00
    • price > 0
    • sym_suffix = ”
    • Time is between 9:30 am and 4:00 pm

                                          37
   Following Holden and Jacobsen (2014), we delay quotes as follows:


    • Add 1 nanosecond (one-billionth of a second) delay post Oct 24, 2016


    • Add 1 microsecond (one-millionth of a second) delay post Jul 24, 2015


    • Add 1 millisecond (one-thousand of a second) delay post Sep 9, 2003


Explicitly, the Holden and Jacobsen (2014) DTAQ code adds a nanosecond de-

lay, but due to the data variable data availability in DTAQ the delays are as listed

above.



A.3.     Details of Low Frequency Spreads

   Three of our four proxies build off of Roll’s (1984) classic microstructure

model. The Roll model assumes that the true value of a stock follows a random

walk, and that the observed trade prices deviate from the true value by the ef-

fective spread. The fourth proxy uses a completely different framework: the Kyle

and Obizhaeva (2016) microstructure invariance hypothesis. All 4 proxies have

been shown to be highly correlated with HF spreads.

   The LF proxies we use are as follows:


   1. Hasbrouck’s (2009) Gibbs sampler estimate of the Roll model (Gibbs)

       Hasbrouck (2009) estimates the Roll model using Bayesian methods (Gibbs

       sampler) and daily closing prices. Identification comes from the "bid-ask

       bounce"— the phenomenon in which buyer initiated trades tend to occur

       at higher prices than seller initiated trades. Bid-ask bounce induces a neg-

       ative serial correlation in transaction prices, that is stronger for stocks that

       are more expensive to trade. The Bayesian approach ensures that the mea-

       sured serial correlation is negative, and thus the estimated spread is well


                                          38
  defined. Our Gibbs proxy is estimated using annual samples, following the

  approach recommended in Hasbrouck (2009).

  Gibbs forms the basis for transaction costs in several other studies of port-

  folio returns, including Brandt, Santa-Clara, and Valkanov (2009); Hand

  and Green (2011); Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016); and DeMiguel et al.

  (Forthcoming).


2. Corwin and Schultz’s (2012) High-Low Spread (HL).

  Corwin and Schultz (2012) estimate the Roll model from daily high and low

  prices (hence, HL) that are available in CRSP. Identification comes from the

  fact that the daily high-low ratio reflects both spreads and return volatility,

  but these two components decay at different rates. Thus, the comparison

  of 1-day and 2-day price ranges provides information about the effective

  spread.

  HL is used in many studies including Karnaukh, Ranaldo, and Soderlind

  (2015); McLean and Pontiff (2016); Koch, Ruenzi, and Starks (2016); and

  Chen and Zimmermann (2019).


3. Abdi and Ranaldo’s (2017) Close-High-Low (CHL)

  Abdi and Ranaldo’s (2017) CHL proxy estimates the Roll model using daily

  closing prices as well as the daily high and low (hence, CHL). Abdi and

  Ranaldo’s identification builds off the insight that the average of the daily

  high and low prices (the midpoint) contains important information about

  the true price. Abdi and Ranaldo (2017) show that CHL outperforms both

  Gibbs and HL using a number of empirical tests.


4. Volume-over-Volatility (VoV), based on Kyle and Obizhaeva’s (2016) mi-

  crostructure invariance hypothesis.


                                     39
      Our last LF proxy takes a rather different approach. Rather than build off

      of Roll (1984), VoV is based on the Kyle and Obizhaeva’s (2016) microstruc-

      ture invariance hypothesis. In particular, we use Fong, Holden, and Tobek’s

      (2017) (FHT’s) implementation:

                                        £                        ¤2
                                     8.0 Std Dev of Daily Returns 3
                      [VoV]i ,t =                                     1
                                                                                  (14)
                                    [Mean Real Daily Dollar Volume] 3


      where [VoV]i ,t is the proxy for effective spread for stock i in month t , the 32

      and 13 exponents are predictions of Kyle and Obizhaeva’s (2016) invariance

      hypothesis, and the 8.0 coefficient was chosen by FHT to fit the average

      monthly TAQ effective spread in their U.S. sample. Nominal dollar volume

      is converted to real dollar volume using the CPI.

      The invariance hypothesis is that the distribution of transaction costs is

      the same across assets and time periods when expressed in terms of “busi-

      ness time,” that is, the speed with which “bets” arrive at the market. This

      hypothesis leads to the prediction that the constant term in trading costs

      (alternatively, the bid-ask spread) is proportional to the RHS of Equation

      (14). Fong, Holden, and Tobek (2017) find that VoV is the best perform-

      ing LF proxy among many proxies in terms of correlations and RMSE with

      respect to TAQ spreads.


   HL and CHL both use daily high and low prices. For days in which stocks do

not trade, we use the most recent observation of high and low prices. As noted in

Abdi and Ranaldo (2017) and Corwin and Schultz (2012), on days in which stocks

do not trade CRSP provides closing quoted spreads, and closing quoted spreads

are very highly correlated with effective HF spreads in the recent sample. In these

cases, we do not use the closing quoted spread in order to make interpretation of

our LF proxy average simple.

                                           40
   The LF proxies require multiple firm-day observations to compute a spread

for a given firm-month. We follow the original papers and do not compute the

proxy if the data is insufficient. Specifically, HL requires 12 daily observations,

CHL requires 12 eligible days following the definition in Abdi and Ranaldo (2017),

VoV requires 5 positive volume and 11 non-zero return observations, and Gibbs

requires the sampler to converge.

   We compute a LF average if we have at least one LF proxy with data. In 12.24%

of observations, all LF and HF spreads are missing data. These missing observa-

tions have little effect on our main results, however, as only 0.27% of post-1993

observations are missing, and 90% of our anomalies are published after 1993. If

ISSM, TAQ, and the LF spreads are all missing, we match the firm to the nearest

firm with available data in terms of Euclidean distance of market equity rank and

idiosyncratic volatility rank. If idiosyncratic volatility is missing, we use just the

market equity rank. This data filling procedure follows Novy-Marx and Velikov

(2016).



A.4.      Details of Cost Optimization

   Table A.4 illustrates the first step of our optimization. Panel A shows the

net returns of equal-weighted quintile strategies within turnover quantiles, af-

ter implementing a variety of buy-hold spreads. The panel shows that buy/hold

spreads improve the net returns of high turnover anomalies, but do not help

much among anomalies with low turnover. Anomalies in the 3rd turnover quar-

tile perform best on average using a 20/35 buy-hold spread—that is, long po-

sitions should only be exited when they drop below the top 35th percentile of

the anomaly signal. 4th turnover quartile anomalies benefit significantly from a

20/50 buy/hold spread, but they do not produce positive net returns on average.



                                         41
   Panel B shows that buy/hold spreads are reliably effective for value-weighted

NYSE decile strategies. As with equal-weighted quintiles, buy/hold spreads

do not significantly improve the net returns of anomalies with below-median

turnover. Buy/hold spreads produce significantly positive net returns for 3rd

turnover quartile anomalies and even the 4th turnover quartile anomalies, how-

ever. These results are consistent with Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016), who also

find that the trading costs for low turnover anomalies are too small to justify im-

plementing a buy/hold spread.

   Bold numbers indicate the best-performing buy/hold spreads for each stock

weighting and turnover quartile combination. In the last step of our cost mitiga-

tion, we choose the stock weighting and breakpoint choice that maximizes the

net return in-sample, given the bold buy/hold spreads in Table A.4. This last step

of the optimization is done at the anomaly level, and is not shown in the table.

   Figures A.2 and A.3 show that our cost mitigation is effective in-sample. The

figures show the distribution of in-sample net returns before (Figure A.2) and af-

ter (A.3) cost mitigation. Rather than use bars to indicate the histogram counts,

we list acronyms, with each acronym identifying a different anomaly. Full refer-

ences for each acronym are found in Appendix A.1.

   Figure A.2 shows that net returns before cost mitigation feature a long left

tail. While most anomalies have positive net returns ranging between 0 and 60

bps per month, many anomalies have very negative net returns of -50 to -300 bps.

Averaging across all anomalies leads to the tiny net return of 6 bps per month in

Table 2.

   Anomalies with above-median turnover are shown in bold.             These high

turnover anomalies occupy the vast majority of the left tail of net returns. These

high turnover anomalies include many momentum anomalies like 12-month



                                        42
momentum (Mom12m) and momentum among junk-rated firms (Mom6Jnk),

but also includes a variety of unrelated anomalies like idiosyncratic volatility

(IdioVol), earnings forecast dispersion (EPSDisp), and detrended trading volume

(VolumeTre). Persistent anomaly signals like B/M (BM) and size (Size) are little

affected by bid-ask spreads and occupy the right tail of this distribution.

   Cost-mitigation should be very helpful with this left tail of net returns. As

seen in Table A.4, value-weighting combined with a buy/hold spread produces

positive net returns even among anomalies in the highest turnover quartile.

   Indeed, Figure A.3 shows that our cost-mitigation is quite effective in-sample.

The long left tail of net returns from Figure A.2 is gone. As a result, the average

anomaly net return increases to a notable 38 bps per month.

   Cost mitigation techniques used on each anomaly are also shown in Figure

A.3. Anomalies that use value-weighting are shown in italics. Strategies that use

buy/hold spreads larger than 5 percentage points are underlined. We do not un-

derline equal-weighted 20/25 buy/hold spreads as the improvement in net re-

turns is very small (Table A.4).

   60% of anomalies perform best using value-weighting once trading costs are

accounted for. A large fraction of these anomalies work best with a combination

of value-weighting and a buy/hold spread. Indeed, most of the anomalies with

negative net returns before optimization (bold) become profitable once both of

these techniques are applied.

   The anomalies that are rescued by cost-mitigation include the momentum

anomalies (Mom6m, Mom12m, Mom6Jnk, etc). Indeed, momentum anoma-

lies move from among the worst performers using the academic strategies to

among the best performers once value-weighting and buy/hold spreads are ap-

plied. Other anomalies that have significantly improved by cost mitigation in-

clude idiosyncratic volatility (IdioVol), the distress anomaly (FailurePr), and the

                                        43
forecasted earnings-price ratio (EPforecas).

   Still, there are a few anomalies that cost mitigation cannot resuscitate. Many

of these are related to information diffusion, such as price delay (PriceDela) or

the earnings surprise of matched large firms (EarnSupBig). Intuitively, profiting

on slow information diffusion may require trading neglected and illiquid stocks,

as well as frequent trading.

   The net returns in Figure A.3 are largely not available to the public, however.

Many readers may not be able to trade on the anomalies until after they are pub-

lished. Even the academics who developed the original strategies in Figure A.3

likely cannot earn the in-sample profits, as the strategies were developed toward

the end of the in-sample period.




                                       44
Table A.4: Optimizing Buy-Hold Spreads: Mean Net Returns In-Sample by
Turnover Quartile
The table shows mean net returns in-sample for various buy/hold spread trading rules
within turnover quartiles. Bold numbers indicate the best-performing buy/hold spread
for each turnover quartile. Turnover quartiles are calculated using the EW quintile
benchmark (panel A) and the VW NYSE deciles (panel B). For buy/hold spreads in panel
A, we enter a long position for stocks that enter the top 20th percentile of the anomaly
signal, but only exit the long position when the stock drops below the percentile indi-
cated by the buy/hold lower bound in the table. Similarly, we enter short positions when
stocks enter the bottom 20th percentile, but only exit when stocks rise above the indi-
cated buy/hold lower bound. Panel B enters long positions when stocks enter the 10th
NYSE percentile and exits when the stock drops below the NYSE percentile indicated by
the buy/hold lower bound.

                                 Panel A: EW Quintiles


                                       Buy/Hold Lower Bound
                             20      25    30    35    40   45              50
                  Q1 0.39 0.39 0.38 0.37 0.36 0.34 0.33
         Turnover Q2 0.31 0.32 0.31 0.31 0.30 0.29 0.28
         Quartile Q3 0.12 0.16 0.17 0.18 0.17 0.17 0.17
                  Q4 -0.65 -0.51 -0.41 -0.34 -0.29 -0.24 -0.21




                             Panel B: VW NYSE Deciles


                                        Buy/Hold Lower Bound
                                     10    20     30     40            50
                            Q1     0.33    0.28     0.26    0.24     0.23
              Turnover      Q2     0.34    0.32     0.30    0.26     0.22
              Quartile      Q3     0.16    0.23     0.22    0.19     0.19
                            Q4     0.07    0.23     0.28    0.31     0.32




                                          45
     Figure A.2: Distribution of Net Returns: In-Sample, Before Cost Optimization We adjust anomaly returns for effective bid-ask
     spreads (Figure 3). All portfolios use equal-weighted quintile sorts, following the modal approach in the literature. Anomalies
     with above median turnover (15% per month, two-sided) are shown in bold. Hash marks indicate larger bins. Published anomaly
     strategies have a long left tail in net returns, and produce an average net return of only 5 bps per month.

                             35
                                                                                                  bold: Turnover > 15% per month
                                                                                ATurnGr
                                                                                AccrAbn
                             30                                                 BMlev
                                                                                CAPXgr
                                                                                CF2Pvar     ATurn
                                                                                CFOper2Pr   AccrOper
                                                                                EPSrevise   Accruals
                             25                                                 FailurePr   AdExpGr
                                                                                GIndex      AssetCGr
                                                                AccrPct         GM2SaleGr   BEgrowth
                                                                AnnounRet       Herf        BetaSquar
46                                                              Cash            Illiquid    BidAskSpr
                             20                                 DepGr           InstOwnSI   DebtFinC
                                                                EPSDisp         InvToRev    IntanEP      BMent

                     Count
                                                                EPforecas       LTNOAgr     IntanSP      DeferRev
                                                                EarnCons        LiabCGr     InvestGr     EP
                                                                Eq2AGr          MomYoung    Invntory     EPSForeLT
                             15                                 ExcludExp       OSmirkNTM   LaborGr      EarnSurp
                                                                High52          PayYield    Leverage     EntMult
                                                                IndMom          PensionFu   NDebtFin     FinLiabGr
                                                                LTAssetGr       ProfCash    OSmirkCP     IntanBM
                                                                Mom12m          ProfGross   OperLever    IntanCFP
                             10                                 Mom1813         RDirtSurp   OptVol       KZ
                                                                Mom6Jnk         RealEstat   OrderBack    NDebtPric
                                                                Mom6m           RevG2InvG   OrgCap       NEqFin
                                                                MomVol          RevG2OHG    RoE          NOA
                                                                NWCgr           RevSurpri   ShareIs1     NPayYield
                             5      EarnSupBi                   OptVolGr        ShortInte   ShareIs5     OScore       BM
                                    IdioVol       Mom12to7      PMGrowth        Tangibili   Tax2E        ProfOper     CF2Price     EffFronti
                                    IndRetBig     Mom1m         VolumeDol       TaxGr       VolumeSD     ProfitMar    ExtFinNet    InvestAG
                                    MaxRet        RetConglo     VolumeSha       TurnovVol   ZScore       Rev2Price    Mom36m       Price
                                    PriceDela     Seasonali     VolumeTre       Volume2Mk   ZeroTrade    RevGrowth    RoA          Size
                             0     //            //            //           //
                                  -300          -200          -100          0           20              40           60           80           100
                                                                Net Return In-Sample (bps per month)
     Figure A.3: Cost Optimization Results: Distribution of Net Returns: In-Sample. We mitigate transaction costs by applying value-
     weighting and/or buy/hold spreads to 120 anomaly portfolios. Buy/hold spreads are chosen to maximize net returns in-sample
     following Table A.4. Stock weighting is chosen to maximize the in-sample net return given the optimized buy/hold spread. Italicized
     anomalies benefit from value-weighting. Underlined anomalies benefit from buy/hold spreads. Bold indicates anomalies with
     negative net returns before cost mitigation. Hash marks indicate larger bins. Cost mitigation leads to positive net returns for the vast
     majority of anomalies, and raise the average net return to 38 bps per month.

                              40
                                                                           ATurn
                                                                           ATurnGr
                              35                                           AccrOper         italics: Value-Weighted
                                                                           AdExpGr          underline: Buy/Hold Spread
                                                                           AssetCGr
                                                                           Cash             bold: Net Ret < 0 Before Mitigation
                                                                           DebtFinC
                              30                                           EPSrevise
                                                                           Herf
                                                                           High52
                                                                           Illiquid
                                                                 AccrPct   IntanEP   AccrAbn
                              25                                 BMlev     IntanSP   BEgrowth
                                                                 CAPXgr    InvToRev  BMent
47                                                               CF2Pvar   InvestGr  BetaSquar
                                                                 CFOper2Pr Invntory  BidAskSpr


                      Count
                                                                 DepGr     LTAssetGr DeferRev
                              20                                 EPSDisp   LaborGr   EP
                                                                 EarnCons Leverage   EPSForeLT
                                                                 GM2SaleGr MaxRet    EarnSurp
                                                                 IndRetBig Mom12to7 EntMult
                                                                 InstOwnSI MomVol    FailurePr
                              15                                 LTNOAgr   NDebtFin  FinLiabGr
                                                                 LiabCGr   NWCgr     IntanBM
                                                                 Mom1813 OSmirkCP IntanCFP
                                                                 OSmirkNTM OperLever KZ
                                                                 OptVolGr OptVol     Mom6m        Accruals
                              10                                 PensionFu OrgCap    NDebtPric BM
                                                                 ProfGross RevG2InvG OrderBack CF2Price
                                                                 RDirtSurp RoE       PayYield     ExtFinNet EPforecas
                                                                 RealEstat ShareIs1  ProfOper     GIndex    EffFronti
                                                                 RevG2OHG Tax2E      ProfitMar    IdioVol   InvestAG
                              5                        Eq2AGr    RevSurpri TaxGr     Rev2Price    Mom36m    Mom6Jnk
                                                       ExcludExp ShortInte Volume2Mk RevGrowth NEqFin       NPayYield
                                             EarnSupBi IndMom    TurnovVol VolumeDol ShareIs5     NOA       OScore
                                             PriceDela PMGrowth VolumeSha ZScore     Tangibili    ProfCash  Price            AnnounRet
                                    Mom1m    RetConglo Seasonali VolumeTre ZeroTrade VolumeSD     RoA       Size      Mom12m MomYoung
                              0                                                                                             //           //
                                   -60      -40      -20       0         20        40        60        80       100       120       180
                                                            Net Return In-Sample (bps per month)
A.5.   Additional Results


              Figure A.4: Distribution of Publication Years.




                                   48
                                    Figure A.5: Distribution of Post-Publication Sample Lengths.


                              120                                                                   120




# of Anomalies with Returns
                              100                                                                   100


                              80                                                                    80


                              60                                                                    60


                              40                                                                    40


                              20                                                                    20


                               0                                                                     0
                                    0     5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40       45
                                                     Years Since Publication




                                                                49
 Table A.5: Returns Gross and Net of Trading Costs: Post-Pub and Post-2005
This table shows the same calculations as Table 2 but uses post-2005 data only.

                          (a)        (b)               (c)      (d) ≈ (b) × (c)   (e) = (a) - (d)
                        Gross     Turnover         Ave Spread       Return             Net
                        Return    (2-sided)           Paid        Reduction          Return
 Panel A: Equal-Weighted Long-Short Quintiles
 Post-Pub & Post-2005     0.30       0.30             1.11           0.32             -0.03
                         (0.10)     (0.10)           (0.10)         (0.10)            (0.10)

 Panel B: Cost-Mitigated using Value-Weighting and Buy/Hold Spreads
 Post-Pub & Post-2005     0.20       0.20             0.60           0.08              0.13
                         (0.10)     (0.10)           (0.10)         (0.10)            (0.10)

 Panel C: Cost-Mitigated using Buy/Hold Spreads, Value-Weighted only
 Post-Pub & Post-2005     0.12       0.19             0.31           0.05              0.07
                         (0.10)     (0.10)           (0.10)         (0.10)            (0.10)




                                              50
References

Abdi, Farshid and Angelo Ranaldo. “A Simple Estimation of Bid-Ask Spreads from

   Daily Close, High, and Low Prices”. The Review of Financial Studies 30.12

   (2017), pp. 4437–4480.

Azevedo, Eduardo M et al. “Empirical Bayes Estimation of Treatment Effects with

   Many A/B Tests: An Overview”. AEA Papers and Proceedings. Vol. 109. 2019,

   pp. 43–47.

Ball, Ray, SP Kothari, and Jay Shanken. “Problems in measuring portfolio perfor-

   mance An application to contrarian investment strategies”. Journal of Finan-

   cial Economics 38.1 (1995), pp. 79–107.

Barber, Brad M, Terrance Odean, and Ning Zhu. “Do retail trades move markets?”

   The Review of Financial Studies 22.1 (2008), pp. 151–186.

Bates, John M and Clive WJ Granger. “The combination of forecasts”. Journal of

   the Operational Research Society 20.4 (1969), pp. 451–468.

Brandt, Michael W, Pedro Santa-Clara, and Rossen Valkanov. “Parametric portfo-

   lio policies: Exploiting characteristics in the cross-section of equity returns”.

   The Review of Financial Studies 22.9 (2009), pp. 3411–3447.

Briere, Marie et al. “Stock Market Liquidity and the Trading Costs of Asset Pricing

   Anomalies”. Available at SSRN 3380239 (2019).

Campbell, John Y and John H Cochrane. “By Force of Habit: A Consumption-

   Based Explanation of Aggregate Stock Market Behavior”. Journal of Political

   Economy 107.2 (1999), pp. 205–251.

Chen, Andrew Y and Tom Zimmermann. “Publication Bias and the Cross-Section

   of Stock Returns”. The Review of Asset Pricing Studies (Nov. 2019). raz011.

   ISSN : 2045-9920. eprint: https : / / academic . oup . com / raps / advance -




                                        51
   article - pdf / doi / 10 . 1093 / rapstu / raz011 / 31618483 / raz011 . pdf.
   URL : https://doi.org/10.1093/rapstu/raz011.

Chordia, Tarun, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and Qing Tong. “Have capital market

   anomalies attenuated in the recent era of high liquidity and trading activity?”

   Journal of Accounting and Economics 58.1 (2014), pp. 41–58.

Chu, Yongqiang, David Hirshleifer, and Liang Ma. The causal effect of limits to

   arbitrage on asset pricing anomalies. Tech. rep. National Bureau of Economic

   Research, 2017.

Cohen, Lauren, Karl B Diether, and Christopher J Malloy. “Supply and demand

   shifts in the shorting market”. The Journal of Finance 62.5 (2007), pp. 2061–

   2096.

Cont, Rama and Arseniy Kukanov. “Optimal order placement in limit order mar-

   kets”. Quantitative Finance 17.1 (2017), pp. 21–39.

Corwin, Shane A and Paul Schultz. “A simple way to estimate bid-ask spreads

   from daily high and low prices”. The Journal of Finance 67.2 (2012), pp. 719–

   760.

Dawid, AP. “Selection paradoxes of Bayesian inference”. Lecture Notes-

   Monograph Series (1994), pp. 211–220.

DeMiguel, Victor, Lorenzo Garlappi, and Raman Uppal. “Optimal versus naive

   diversification: How inefficient is the 1/N portfolio strategy?” The review of

   Financial studies 22.5 (2009), pp. 1915–1953.

DeMiguel, Victor et al. “A portfolio perspective on the multitude of firm charac-

   teristics” (Forthcoming).

Drechsler, Itamar and Qingyi Freda Drechsler. “The Shorting Premium and Asset

   Pricing Anomalies” (2016).

Efron, Bradley. Large-scale inference: empirical Bayes methods for estimation,

   testing, and prediction. Vol. 1. Cambridge University Press, 2012.



                                       52
Efron, Bradley. “Tweedie’s formula and selection bias”. Journal of the American

   Statistical Association 106.496 (2011), pp. 1602–1614.

Fama, Eugene F and James D MacBeth. “Risk, return, and equilibrium: Empirical

   tests”. The Journal of Political Economy (1973), pp. 607–636.

Feng, Guanhao, Stefano Giglio, and Dacheng Xiu. “Taming the Factor Zoo”

   (2017).

Fong, Kingsley YL, Craig W Holden, and Charles A Trzcinka. “What are the best

   liquidity proxies for global research?” Review of Finance 21.4 (2017), pp. 1355–

   1401.

Fong, Kingsley, Craig Holden, and Ondrej Tobek. “Are Volatility Over Volume Liq-

   uidity Proxies Useful For Global Or US Research?” (2017).

Frazzini, Andrea, Ronen Israel, and Tobias J Moskowitz. “Trading costs”. Avail-

   able at SSRN 3229719 (2018).

— “Trading costs of asset pricing anomalies” (2015).

Freyberger, Joachim, Andreas Neuhierl, and Michael Weber. Dissecting character-

   istics nonparametrically. Tech. rep. National Bureau of Economic Research,

   2017.

Gârleanu, Nicolae and Lasse Heje Pedersen. “Efficiently inefficient markets for

   assets and asset management”. The Journal of Finance 73.4 (2018), pp. 1663–

   1712.

Glosten, Lawrence R and Paul R Milgrom. “Bid, ask and transaction prices in a

   specialist market with heterogeneously informed traders”. Journal of finan-

   cial economics 14.1 (1985), pp. 71–100.

Gompers, Paul, Joy Ishii, and Andrew Metrick. “Corporate governance and equity

   prices”. The quarterly journal of economics 118.1 (2003), pp. 107–156.




                                       53
Goyenko, Ruslan Y, Craig W Holden, and Charles A Trzcinka. “Do liquidity mea-

   sures measure liquidity?” Journal of financial Economics 92.2 (2009), pp. 153–

   181.

Green, Jeremiah, John RM Hand, and Frank Zhang. “The remarkable multidi-

   mensionality in the cross-section of expected US stock returns”. Available at

   SSRN 2262374 (2014).

Green, Jeremiah, John RM Hand, and X Frank Zhang. “The characteristics that

   provide independent information about average us monthly stock returns”.

   The Review of Financial Studies (2017), hhx019.

— “The supraview of return predictive signals”. Review of Accounting Studies

   18.3 (2013), pp. 692–730.

Grossman, Sanford J and Joseph E Stiglitz. “On the impossibility of information-

   ally efficient markets”. The American economic review 70.3 (1980), pp. 393–

   408.

Hand, John RM and Jeremiah Green. “The importance of accounting informa-

   tion in portfolio optimization”. Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance

   26.1 (2011), pp. 1–34.

Hanna, J Douglas and Mark J Ready. “Profitable predictability in the cross section

   of stock returns”. Journal of Financial Economics 78.3 (2005), pp. 463–505.

Harvey, Campbell R, Yan Liu, and Heqing Zhu. “... and the cross-section of ex-

   pected returns”. The Review of Financial Studies 29.1 (2016), pp. 5–68.

Hasbrouck, Joel. “Trading costs and returns for US equities: Estimating effective

   costs from daily data”. The Journal of Finance 64.3 (2009), pp. 1445–1477.

Holden, Craig W and Stacey Jacobsen. “Liquidity measurement problems in fast,

   competitive markets: Expensive and cheap solutions”. The Journal of Finance

   69.4 (2014), pp. 1747–1785.




                                       54
Hong, Harrison and Marcin Kacperczyk. “The price of sin: The effects of social

   norms on markets”. Journal of Financial Economics 93.1 (2009), pp. 15–36.

Hou, Kewei, Sehoon Kim, and Ingrid M Werner. “(Priced) Frictions” (2016).

Hou, Kewei, Chen Xue, and Lu Zhang. Replicating Anomalies. Tech. rep. National

   Bureau of Economic Research, 2017.

Huang, Jing-Zhi and Zhijian James Huang. “Real-Time Profitabiliyt of Published

   Anomalies: An Out-of-Sample Test”. Quarterly Journal of Finance 3 (2013).

Institute for the Study of Security Markets. NYSE/AMEX and NAS-

   DAQ     Historical    Tick     Data.   Wharton    Research    Data    Services,

   http://www.whartonwrds.com/datasets/crsp/.

Jacobs, Heiko and Sebastian Müller. “Anomalies across the globe: Once public,

   no longer existent?” (2017).

Jahan-Parvar, Mohammad and Filip Zikes. “When do low-frequency measures

   really measure transaction costs?” (2019).

James, William and Charles Stein. “Estimation with quadratic loss”. Proceedings

   of the fourth Berkeley symposium on mathematical statistics and probability.

   Vol. 1. 1961. 1961, pp. 361–379.

Karnaukh, Nina, Angelo Ranaldo, and Paul Soderlind. “Understanding FX liquid-

   ity”. The Review of Financial Studies 28.11 (2015), pp. 3073–3108.

Kelly, Bryan and Hao Jiang. “Tail risk and asset prices”. Review of Financial Stud-

   ies (2014), hhu039.

Knez, Peter J and Mark J Ready. “Estimating the profits from trading strategies”.

   The Review of Financial Studies 9.4 (1996), pp. 1121–1163.

Koch, Andrew, Stefan Ruenzi, and Laura Starks. “Commonality in liquidity:

   a demand-side explanation”. The Review of Financial Studies 29.8 (2016),

   pp. 1943–1974.




                                          55
Korajczyk, Robert A and Ronnie Sadka. “Are momentum profits robust to trading

   costs?” The Journal of Finance 59.3 (2004), pp. 1039–1082.

Kyle, Albert S and Anna A Obizhaeva. “Market microstructure invariance: Empir-

   ical hypotheses”. Econometrica 84.4 (2016), pp. 1345–1404.

Leland, Hayne. “Optimal portfolio implementation with transactions costs and

   capital gains taxes”. Haas School of Business Technical Report (2000).

Lesmond, David A, Michael J Schill, and Chunsheng Zhou. “The illusory nature

   of momentum profits”. Journal of financial economics 71.2 (2004), pp. 349–

   380.

Liu, Hong. “Optimal consumption and investment with transaction costs and

   multiple risky assets”. The Journal of Finance 59.1 (2004), pp. 289–338.

Liu, Laura, Hyungsik Roger Moon, and Frank Schorfheide. “Forecasting with dy-

   namic panel data models”. Econometrica 88.1 (2020), pp. 171–201.

Lo, Andrew W. “The Adaptive Markets Hypothesis: Market Efficiency from

   an Evolutionary Perspective”. Journal of Portfolio Management 30 (2004),

   pp. 15–29.

Lou, Xiaoxia and Tao Shu. “Price impact or trading volume: Why is the Amihud

   (2002) illiquidity measure priced”. Available at SSRN 2291942 (2014).

Magill, Michael JP and George M Constantinides. “Portfolio selection with trans-

   actions costs”. Journal of Economic Theory 13.2 (1976), pp. 245–263.

Marquering, Wessel, Johan Nisser, and Toni Valla. “Disappearing anomalies: a

   dynamic analysis of the persistence of anomalies”. Applied Financial Eco-

   nomics 16.4 (2006), pp. 291–302.

McLean, R David. “Idiosyncratic risk, long-term reversal, and momentum”. Jour-

   nal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 45.4 (2010), pp. 883–906.

McLean, R David and Jeffrey Pontiff. “Does academic research destroy stock re-

   turn predictability?” The Journal of Finance 71.1 (2016), pp. 5–32.



                                       56
Moallemi, Ciamac C. and Mehmet Saglam. “Dynamic Portfolio Choice with Lin-

   ear Rebalancing Rules”. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 52.3

   (2017), 1247fffd1278.

New York Stock Exchange. Daily TAQ (Historical Trades Quotes). Wharton Re-

   search Data Services, http://www.whartonwrds.com/datasets/crsp/.

— Monthly TAQ (Historical Trades Quotes). Wharton Research Data Services,

   http://www.whartonwrds.com/datasets/crsp/.

Novy-Marx, Robert and Mihail Velikov. “A taxonomy of anomalies and their trad-

   ing costs”. Review of Financial Studies 29.1 (2016), pp. 104–147.

— “Comparing Cost-Mitigation Techniques”. Financial Analysts Journal 75.1

   (2019), pp. 85–102.

Patton, Andrew J and Brian M Weller. “What you see is not what you get: The

   costs of trading market anomalies” (2017).

Perold, Andre F. “The implementation shortfall: Paper versus reality”. Journal of

   Portfolio Management 14.3 (1988), p. 4.

Pontiff, Jeffrey and Michael Schill. “Long-run seasoned equity offering returns:

   Data snooping, model misspecification, or mispricing? A costly arbitrage ap-

   proach” (2001).

Ritter, Jay R. “The long-run performance of initial public offerings”. The journal

   of finance 46.1 (1991), pp. 3–27.

Roll, Richard. “A simple implicit measure of the effective bid-ask spread in an

   efficient market”. The Journal of finance 39.4 (1984), pp. 1127–1139.

Schultz, Paul. “Transaction costs and the small firm effect: A comment”. Journal

   of Financial Economics 12.1 (1983), pp. 81–88.

Schwert, G William. “Anomalies and market efficiency”. Handbook of the Eco-

   nomics of Finance 1 (2003), pp. 939–974.




                                       57
Senn, Stephen. “A note concerning a selection “paradox” of dawid’s”. The Amer-

   ican Statistician 62.3 (2008), pp. 206–210.

Stigler, Stephen M. “The 1988 Neyman memorial lecture: a Galtonian perspective

   on shrinkage estimators”. Statistical Science 5.1 (1990), pp. 147–155.

Stoll, Hans R. “Market microstructure”. Handbook of the Economics of Finance.

   Vol. 1. Elsevier, 2003, pp. 553–604.

Stoll, Hans R and Robert E Whaley. “Transaction costs and the small firm effect”.

   Journal of Financial Economics 12.1 (1983), pp. 57–79.

Timmermann, Allan. “Forecast combinations”. Handbook of economic forecast-

   ing 1 (2006), pp. 135–196.

WRDS:     Center    for   Research        in    Security   Prices.    CRSP/Compustat

   Merged       Database.        Wharton           Research          Data   Services,

   http://www.whartonwrds.com/datasets/crsp/.

Xie, Xianchao, SC Kou, and Lawrence D Brown. “SURE estimates for a het-

   eroscedastic hierarchical model”. Journal of the American Statistical Associ-

   ation 107.500 (2012), pp. 1465–1479.




                                           58
Tables and Figures




                     59
Table 1: Correlations Between Low-Frequency Proxies and High-Frequency Ef-
fective Bid-Ask Spreads
Correlations are pooled.      We examine four low frequency proxies for spreads:
Gibbs is Hasbrouck’s (2009) Gibbs estimate of the Roll model, HL is Corwin and
Schultz’s (2012) high-low spread, CHL is Abdi and Ranaldo’s (2017) close-high-low,
and VoV (volume-over-volatility) is Fong, Holden, and Tobek’s (2017) implementa-
tion of Kyle and Obizhaeva (2016) microstructure invariance hypothesis. LF_ave
is the equal weighted average of the four low frequency proxies. TAQ and ISSM
are computed from high-frequency data. The low frequency measures are imper-
fectly correlated, suggesting that they contain distinct information. LF_ave has the
highest correlation with high-frequency spreads. LF spread data are available at
http://sites.google.com/site/chenandrewy/code-and-data/.

            Panel A: LF spread correlations (1926-2017; 2,114,436 obs.)
                       Gibbs      HL      CHL      VoV
            Gibbs       1.00
            HL          0.68     1.00
            CHL         0.76     0.88     1.00
            VoV         0.75     0.59     0.74     1.00


            Panel B: Correlations with TAQ (1993-2014; 1,183,068 obs.)
                       TAQ      Gibbs      HL      CHL     VoV     LF_Ave
            TAQ        1.00
            Gibbs      0.84      1.00
            HL         0.71      0.67     1.00
            CHL        0.80      0.74     0.88     1.00
            VoV        0.84      0.73     0.60     0.75    1.00
            LF_Ave     0.90      0.90     0.86     0.93    0.87      1.00


            Panel C: Correlations with ISSM (1983-1992; 262,381 obs.)
                       ISSM     Gibbs      HL      CHL     VoV     LF_Ave
            ISSM        1.00
            Gibbs       0.88     1.00
            HL          0.84     0.79     1.00
            CHL         0.90     0.84     0.92     1.00
            VoV         0.86     0.82     0.66     0.78    1.00
            LF_Ave      0.94     0.95     0.90     0.95    0.88      1.00




                                          60
61
         Table 2: Zeroing in on the Average Anomaly’s Expected Return
We estimate the average net return (e) of 120 anomaly long-short portfolios after ac-
counting for effective bid-ask spreads and stale data. All figures are in bps per month
except for turnover, which is a ratio per month. Figures average across months and then
across anomalies, with standard errors in parentheses. Panel A examines the typical aca-
demic implementation (Section 2.3.1). Panels B and C examine cost-optimized imple-
mentations (Section 2.3.2). Columns (a)-(d) report an approximate net return decompo-
sition. Anomalies are drawn from McLean and Pontiff (2016), Green, Hand, and Zhang
(2017), and Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2017) (Section 2.1, Tables A.1-A.3). After accounting
for trading costs and stale data, the expected return is approximately zero. Source: Cen-
ter for Research in Security Prices, New York Stock Exchange, and Institute for the Study
of Security Markets.

                             (a)       (b)               (c)      (d) ≈ (b) × (c)   (e) = (a) - (d)
                           Gross    Turnover         Ave Spread       Return             Net
                           Return   (2-sided)           Paid        Reduction          Return
 Panel A: Equal-Weighted Long-Short Quintiles
 In-Sample                  66        0.31              219            61                 5
                            (4)      (0.04)             (6)            (7)               (6)
 Post-Publication           30        0.30              111            32                -3
                            (4)      (0.04)             (6)            (5)               (5)

 Panel B: Cost-Optimized
 In-Sample                  59        0.20              136            21                38
                            (4)      (0.02)             (7)            (2)               (3)
 Post-Publication           20        0.20               60             8                13
                            (4)      (0.02)             (6)            (1)               (4)
 Post-Pub & Post-2005       14        0.20              46              6                 8
                            (4)      (0.02)             (4)            (1)               (4)

 Panel C: Cost-Optimized, Value-Weighted only
 In-Sample                  46        0.20              86             16                30
                            (4)      (0.02)             (5)            (2)               (3)
 Post-Publication           12        0.19              31              5                 7
                            (3)      (0.02)             (5)            (1)               (3)
 Post-Pub & Post-2005        7        0.19              21              3                 4
                            (3)      (0.02)             (3)            (0)               (3)




                                                62
        Table 3: The Best Expected Returns Using Out-of-Sample Tests
To avoid data-mining bias, we sort anomaly portfolios based on in-sample data and av-
erage net returns post-publication and post-2005. Quartiles are numbered from worst
expected net return a priori—for example, quartile 1 has the highest turnover, and quar-
tile 4 has the lowest turnover. All portfolio implementations use cost-optimization fol-
lowing Section 2.3.2. Panel B restricts implementations to value-weighting. Even the
strongest anomalies have expected returns of only 10-20 bps per month. Source: Center
for Research in Security Prices, New York Stock Exchange, and Institute for the Study of
Security Markets.


                          Panel A: Including Equal-Weighting
                                    Post-Pub Post-05 Net Return (bps monthly)
       In-Sample                                Predictor Quartile
       Predictor                    1 (Worst)      2         3        4 (Best)
       Net Return                      4.8          6.0      12.5        10.6
                                      (5.8)        (6.2)     (6.8)       (7.4)
       Net Sharpe                      4.9          3.5       3.9        21.2
                                      (6.9)        (7.0)     (6.4)       (6.2)
       Return Reduction               14.0          7.0       8.5         4.3
                                      (7.1)        (6.4)     (5.7)       (7.1)
       Turnover                        1.4          7.2      11.0        14.3
                                      (8.1)        (6.2)     (5.5)       (6.5)


                             Panel B: Value-Weighted Only
                                    Post-Pub Post-05 Net Return (bps monthly)
       In-Sample                                Predictor Quartile
       Predictor                    1 (Worst)      2         3        4 (Best)
       Net Return                      1.4          9.3      -4.6        10.6
                                      (6.6)        (7.8)     (7.4)       (8.3)
       Net Sharpe                     -0.7         10.2      -4.2        11.4
                                      (7.0)        (8.7)     (7.7)       (7.0)
       Return Reduction                4.1          1.9       9.3         0.2
                                      (8.4)        (7.1)     (7.4)       (7.2)
       Turnover                        2.4         -0.5       4.3         9.7
                                      (8.1)        (7.0)     (7.2)       (7.9)




                                          63
        Table 4: Empirical Bayes Estimates of the Best Expected Returns
We adjust large mean net returns in post-publication and post-2005 (post-pub05) sam-
ples for data-mining using empirical Bayes. Bootstrapped standard errors are in paren-
theses. Adjustments assume Sharpe ratios are the sum of the true Sharpe ratio and an
error term, and true Sharpe ratios are t-distributed with d.o.f. νSR , scale σSR , and mean
µSR . Given νSR , we estimate σSR and µSR by method of moments (Equation (7)). Adjusted
expected returns are computed from the conditional expectation of true Sharpe ratios
(Equation (10)). Value-weighted implementations imply that method of moments hits a
positivity constraint, and thus σ̂SR = 0. Even the strongest anomalies have expected re-
turns of only 5-20 bps per month, consistent with Table 3. Source: Center for Research in
Security Prices, New York Stock Exchange, and Institute for the Study of Security Markets.



                           Panel A: Including Equal-Weighting
      Parameters (annualized)                    Post-Pub05 Net Return (bps monthly)
  Assumed             Estimated                                  Percentile
  νSR             σ̂SR       µ̂SR                 50        70        80            90
      100          0.20         0.11             10.2      14.3       18.9         21.3
                  (0.06)       (0.03)            (3.2)     (4.1)      (4.2)        (5.0)
       4           0.15         0.11             10.0      14.3       18.1         20.2
                  (0.05)       (0.03)            (3.1)     (3.8)      (4.0)        (4.3)


                              Panel B: Value-Weighted Only
      Parameters (annualized)                    Post-Pub05 Net Return (bps monthly)
  Assumed             Estimated                                  Percentile
  νSR             σ̂SR       µ̂SR                 50        70        80            90
      100          0.00         0.04              4.1       4.9        5.6          6.4
                  (0.06)       (0.03)            (3.5)     (4.4)      (4.7)        (5.3)
       4           0.00         0.04              4.1       4.9        5.6          6.4
                  (0.04)       (0.03)            (3.6)     (4.3)      (4.6)        (5.2)




                                            64
              Table 5: Performance of Size, B/M, and Momentum
Returns are in bps per month. Post-Pub05 is our baseline post-publication and post-
2005 sample, and is equivalent to 2006-2016 for these three anomalies. FIM (2015) is
taken from Table IV of Frazzini, Israel, and Moskowitz (2015). Size, B/M, and momen-
tum perform well in earlier data, consistent with FIM. The performance of individual
anomalies is highly sensitive to the sample period, and thus we need many anomalies
to estimate expected returns post-2005. Source: Center for Research in Security Prices,
New York Stock Exchange, and Institute for the Study of Security Markets.


                                     Panel A: Size
                        Post-Pub05                             FIM (2015)
           Return       2006-2016         1998-2013            1998-2013
           Gross           -25.8             60.0                  66.5
                           (33.9)           (39.2)                (22.1)
           Net             -33.1             48.5                  54.3
                           (33.8)           (39.2)                (21.9)


                                    Panel B: B/M
                        Post-Pub05                             FIM (2015)
           Return       2006-2016         1998-2013            1998-2013
           Gross            32.9             79.9                  40.5
                           (28.7)           (31.3)                (36.2)
           Net              24.5             66.4                  29.3
                           (29.1)           (31.8)                (36.6)


                                Panel C: Momentum
                        Post-Pub05                             FIM (2015)
           Return       2006-2016         1998-2013            1998-2013
           Gross            16.4             36.2                  18.8
                           (60.6)           (59.9)                (47.1)
           Net              12.6             28.8                  -6.4
                           (60.5)           (59.9)                (45.8)




                                          65
Figure 2: The Bias in Low-Frequency Effective Spread Proxies. We take the dif-
ference between low-frequency proxies and TAQ spreads at the firm-month level,
and then take the median across firms to calculate an error in each month. Low-
frequency spreads are from Hasbrouck (2009) (Gibbs), Corwin and Schultz (2012)
(HL), Abdi and Ranaldo (2017) (CHL), and Kyle and Obizhaeva (2016) (VoV).
Post-decimalization, low-frequency proxies are biased upward by roughly 25-50
bps.

                                               2                                                    2
                                                                                         Gibbs




Median (LF Spread - TAQ Spread), (% Point)
                                                                                         HL
                                             1.5                                         CHL        1.5
                                                                                         VoV



                                               1                                                    1



                                             0.5                                                    0.5



                                               0                                                    0



                                             -0.5                                                   -0.5



                                              -1                                                    -1
                                               1990   1995   2000   2005   2010   2015           2020




                                                                    66
Figure 3: Combined Effective Spreads Over Time. Spreads combine high-
frequency and low-frequency data. We use high-frequency Daily TAQ (DTAQ),
Monthly TAQ (MTAQ), and ISSM when available. Otherwise, we use the average
of four low frequency proxies: Gibbs (Hasbrouck 2009), HL (Corwin and Schultz
2012), CHL (Abdi and Ranaldo 2017), and VoV (Kyle and Obizhaeva 2016). The
combined spread tracks well-known structural changes like the entry of NASDAQ
(early 1970s) and decimalization (early 2000s). LF spread data are available at
http://sites.google.com/site/chenandrewy/code-and-data/. Source: Center for
Research in Security Prices, New York Stock Exchange, and Institute for the Study
of Security Markets.

                       12                                                                       12
                                                   th
                       11                      75 percentile                                    11
                                               50 th percentile
                       10                                                                       10
                                               25 th percentile
                       9                                                                        9
                                            <- Average of LF proxies ISSM MTAQ DTAQ ->




Effective spread (%)
                       8                                                                        8

                       7                                                                        7

                       6                                                                        6

                       5                                                                        5

                       4                                                                        4

                       3                                                                        3

                       2                                                                        2

                       1                                                                        1

                       0                                                                         0
                       1920   1930   1940   1950   1960    1970   1980   1990   2000   2010   2020




                                                           67
Figure 4: Distribution of Spreads Paid by Academic Implementations in 2014.
We compare the effective spreads paid by academic implementations with those
of all stocks, NYSE stocks, and Russell 2000 stocks. “Paid by anomaly portfolios”
pools across all trades implied by 120 academic implementations in 2014. Other
distributions are pooled across all stock-months in 2014. Academic implementa-
tions trade stocks across the entire liquidity spectrum, resulting in large trading
costs despite the near-zero modal spreads of recent years. Source: Center for Re-
search in Security Prices, New York Stock Exchange, and Institute for the Study of
Security Markets.

            0.12
                                                      Paid by Anomaly Portfolios
                                                      All Stocks
             0.1                                      NYSE
                                                      Russell 2000


            0.08




Frequency
            0.06



            0.04



            0.02



              0
                   0   0.1   0.2    0.3        0.4   0.5     0.6       0.7         0.8
                                   Effective Spread (%)




                                          68
Figure 5: Event-Time Net Returns for Cost-Optimized Implementations. For a
given month relative to publication, light lines plot the mean net return across all
anomalies. Dark lines show the trailing 5-year moving average of mean returns,
and dashed lines show 2 standard error confidence bounds. Cost optimization
is effective before publication, but net returns become tiny afterwards. Source:
Center for Research in Security Prices, New York Stock Exchange, and Institute
for the Study of Security Markets.


                     0.5                                                      0.5

                  0.375                                                       0.375

                   0.25                                                       0.25

Mean Net Return   0.125                                                       0.125



  (% Monthly)
                      0                                                       0

                  -0.125                                                      -0.125

                             Ave in Month
                   -0.25     Trailing 5-year Ave                              -0.25
                             2 SE C.I.
                  -0.375                                                      -0.375
                       -10   -5     0       5           10   15   20   25   30
                                     Years Since Publication




                                                   69
     Figure 6: Heterogeneity in Cost-Optimized Mean Net Returns Post-Publication and Post-2005. Many anomalies have notable net
     returns, but the distribution closely resembles the null of no predictability, consistent with the idea notable net returns are largely
     due to luck. Source: Center for Research in Security Prices, New York Stock Exchange, and Institute for the Study of Security Markets.


                           30



                           25



                           20


70
                   Count   15



                           10



                            5



                            0
                                -100   -80   -60    -40      -20      0       20       40      60       80      100      120
                                             Net Return Post-Pub and Post-2005 (bps per month)
