                                            SPACs ∗
                                         Minmo Gahng
                     SC Johnson College of Business, Cornell University, USA

                                          Jay R. Ritter
                   Warrington College of Business, University of Florida, USA

                                      Donghang Zhang
               Darla Moore School of Business, University of South Carolina, USA

                                         February 23, 2023


                                               Abstract
Going public by merging with a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) is much
more expensive than conducting a traditional IPO. We rationalize why some companies
merge with a SPAC by listing the potential benefits. We analyze the agency problems
that certain SPAC features address. SPAC IPO investors and deal sponsors have earned
remarkably high annualized average returns, although we warn that recent deals are
likely to disappoint. Public investors in the merged companies have earned very low
market-adjusted returns on an equally weighted basis, although high redemptions on
the worst deals have limited the amount of money that they lost. (JEL G30, G34, G24)
.




   ∗ We thank Nicholas Skibo from Gritstone Asset Management and professionals from SPAC Research

for sharing their proprietary data and providing insights. We also thank Itay Goldstein (the editor),
two anonymous referees, Fatima Zahra Filali Adib, Malcolm Baker, John Coates, Harry DeAngelo, Mark
Flannery, Tim Jenkinson, Andrew Karolyi, Hyun-Dong Kim, Michael Klausner, S. P. Kothari, Stefan
Lewellen, Michelle Lowry, Andy Naranjo, Michael Ohlrogge, Jung Chul Park, Ann Sherman, Jenny Tucker,
and Milos Vulanovic and seminar participants at several investment banks, several CFA Societies, the
2022 AFKA Conference, Concordia University, Cornell University, the 2nd Boca Corporate Finance and
Governance Conference, the 2022 FIRS Conference, the 2021 FMA Conference, the 2021 FSU SunTrust Beach
Conference, Hong Kong Baptist University, the 2021 KIF-KAEA-KAFA Joint Conference, the 2021 NBER
Summer Institute, the Spring 2022 Q-group conference, the University of Connecticut SPAC Conference,
the University of Florida, the University of Nebraska, the University of North Carolina Institute for
Private Capital, the University of Virginia Mayo Center, and the Workshop on Entrepreneurial Finance and
Innovation (WEFI) for helpful comments. Siwen Zhang, Allison Hart, Leli Rostami, Anne-Claire Quindoza,
and John Ferkany provided excellent research assistance. We thank Jessica Bai, Angela Ma, and Miles
Zheng for sharing their founding dates with us. An earlier version of this paper was entitled "Investor
Returns on the Life Cycle of SPACs." Send correspondence to Jay R. Ritter, jay.ritter@warrington.ufl.edu.
Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) are blank check companies created by a sponsor
that go public to raise capital and then find a non-listed operating company to merge with,
in the process taking the operating company public. In 2021, initial public offerings (IPOs) by
SPACs set records. A total of 613 SPACs raised $162.5 billion according to SPAC Research, more
proceeds than in all previous years combined. The recent rise of the SPAC market has resulted
in a heated debate about SPACs among practitioners, academics, and regulators. Proponents of
SPACs argue that private companies benefit by gaining an additional option for raising capital and
listing, and that retail investors benefit by being able to invest in young growth companies that
otherwise would be accessible only through venture capital partnerships. Critics voice concerns
regarding overoptimistic forecasts and low cash delivered per share, citing poor post-merger
returns. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has proposed regulations requiring
more disclosure and greater investor protection.1

    For almost all SPACs created from 2010 until now, units priced at $10 each are issued in the
IPO. A typical unit is composed of a common share and one or more derivative securities, usually
a fraction of a warrant (a call option issued by the company), entitling the holder to buy a share
at an exercise price of $11.50 within 5 years after the completion of a merger. Importantly, the
money raised in the IPO is placed in an escrow (trust) account where it typically earns interest.
The units later become unbundled, allowing the shares and warrants to trade separately.

    SPACs almost always pay 5.5% of the proceeds as underwriting commissions, with 2% paid
at the time of the IPO, leaving $9.80 per share in net proceeds, and the rest deferred—payable
only upon the completion of a merger. Sponsors are typically compensated by retaining 20% of
the SPAC shares, but these sponsor shares (known as the “promote”) have no access to the trust
account.2 Sponsors also usually purchase private placement warrants or units at the time of the
IPO for approximately their fair market value, with the millions of dollars paid for these securities
used to pay future expenses as the SPAC searches for an operating company to merge with. Cash
from the warrant or unit purchase is also used to pay the initial 2% underwriting fee to top up
the trust account to $10 per share or more, rather than the $9.80 in net proceeds from the IPO. All
   1 See the SEC (2022) press release.
   2 The units purchased by investors include Class A shares that are redeemable. Sponsors purchase Class B shares

that are not redeemable but will convert into Class A shares, which will be subject to lockup restrictions, when a
merger is completed. Sponsors typically pay a total of $25,000 for 5,000,000 or so Class B shares, a price of about 0.5
cents per share.



                                                          1
of the sponsors’ compensation (payoffs on their shares and warrants) and more than half of the
underwriters’ fees are thus contingent on the consummation of a business combination.

    SPACs are not allowed to have preidentified target companies and usually set 18 to 24 months
as a deadline to complete a merger. If a SPAC cannot consummate a merger within this timeline,
it must liquidate, distributing the IPO proceeds and the accrued interest in the trust account to
its public shareholders.3 Once a SPAC identifies a target company and reaches an agreement
for a merger, shareholders of the SPAC vote whether or not to approve the proposed merger.
Separately, at this time, each public shareholder decides whether or not to redeem their shares.
The redemption option means that there is a money-back guarantee for SPAC IPO investors. Unit
holders are allowed to keep (or sell) their warrants even when they redeem their shares.

    Because some shareholders may choose to redeem their shares, collecting the redemption
value of the initial trust amount plus interest, the amount of cash available for a merger is
uncertain. To mitigate this uncertainty, in the merger agreement, operating companies negotiate
a minimum amount of cash that the SPAC must deliver. Sponsors frequently invite PIPE (Private
Investment in Public Equity) investments as a part of the merger, providing additional cash.
Sponsors themselves sometimes participate as PIPE investors.4 These PIPE investments either
offset redemptions or augment the cash that is delivered in the merger. Securing prominent PIPE
investors also has a certification effect, encouraging SPAC investors not to redeem. If the merger
is approved by shareholders and the SPAC still has enough cash after redemptions to meet the
terms of the merger agreement, the business combination is consummated, and the SPAC starts
to trade as a newly merged company under a new ticker symbol.

    In this paper, we document that merging with a SPAC on average is a much more expensive
way of going public than a traditional IPO for an operating company. A SPAC delivers less cash
per share than the $10 IPO price to the merging company even after new investments from
PIPE investors, due to redemptions, underwriting fees, other fees, and the promote. For the 153
business combinations completed by the end of March 2021 from SPACs that went public in 2015
or later, the mean and median cash delivered per share are only $7.46 and $8.13, respectively. The
   3 The sponsor can ask public shareholders to vote on an extension of the deadline to complete a merger, but must

offer the right to redeem if the extension is granted. The sponsor also often makes a contribution, usually a few cents
per share, to cover additional costs or to serve as an inducement for investors not to redeem their shares.
   4 Sponsors and their affiliates sometimes commit at the time of the IPO to purchase shares at $10 each when the

merger happens in what is known as a Forward Purchase Agreement (FPA).


                                                          2
total costs of the median company going public via a SPAC merger between January 2015 and
March 2021 were 15.1% of the post-issue market cap, while they were 3.2% for traditional IPOs.
Klausner, Ohlrogge, and Ruan (2022) analyze SPACs, and identify several of the costs associated
with SPACs that are not present with traditional IPOs. The sponsor’s ownership of shares and
warrants imposes a dilution cost on other shareholders. Furthermore, because of the practice
of the IPO underwriter collecting commissions on the IPO units even if many IPO shares are
redeemed, if there is a high redemption ratio, the cash delivered per share falls.

   In spite of these high average costs, we still find that many private companies choose to
go public via a SPAC merger. In 2022, for the first time ever, more companies went public via
SPAC mergers than traditional IPOs. We rationalize why some operating companies merge with
a SPAC by outlining the potential advantages. These advantages are based on the structure of
the SPAC, as well as the economic roles of SPAC sponsors and SPAC IPO investors. For example,
having raised capital in an IPO, a SPAC can potentially consummate a merger with an operating
company in a timely manner, especially if the operating company does not have audited financial
statements. We document, however, that on average merging with a SPAC does not appear to be
quicker than conducting a traditional IPO or direct listing. In addition, in the United States, it has
been widely believed that merger law applies rather than securities issuance law for the business
combinations, providing a “safe harbor” provision for forecasts of future revenue and profits that
security issuance law lacks. It has been argued that SPAC mergers are partly motivated by this
regulatory arbitrage opportunity for private operating companies.

   In this paper, we study the three key participants in the SPAC market: investors, operating
companies merging with a SPAC, and sponsors who create the SPACs. We find consistent
winners and losers in the market—sponsors and IPO investors have persistently performed
well, whereas public market shareholders in the merged companies have performed poorly,
while at the same time warrant holders have on average done well. We identify economic
frictions, such as incentive misalignment and agency issues, and analyze how the structure
of SPACs creates and sometimes mitigates these frictions.

   We document investor returns on SPACs by dividing the life cycle of SPACs into two
periods: the SPAC period, which is between the SPAC IPO and the completion of the business
combination or the SPAC liquidation, and the deSPAC period, which, if there is a merger,


                                                  3
starts on the first trading day as a merged company. To measure investor returns in the
SPAC period, we implement an “optimal redemption strategy.” This strategy calculates an
annualized return for an investor who purchases a SPAC unit at the offer price. The investor
sells each component of the SPAC unit if the market prices are higher than the redemption
values, or redeems if the market prices are below the redemption values, five trading days
prior to the close of a business combination or liquidation, mimicking a real-world strategy
in which settlement delays must be taken into account.

   For the 458 SPAC IPOs from January 2010 to December 2020, investors have on average earned
an equally weighted (EW) annualized return of 23.9% during the SPAC period. Although SPAC
period investors earn most of their returns when SPACs consummate business combinations
(33.2% per year), even liquidated SPACs provide positive returns (2% per year). SPACs are
structured to provide upside potential for the SPAC period investors by offering an option to
become a shareholder of a newly traded company, with a money-back guarantee that, since 2010,
is typically gross of fees. Accordingly, from 2010, even the worst-performing SPAC provided a
positive return of 0.51% per year. Given this downside protected nature of the SPAC period
investment, a SPAC IPO is equivalent to a default-free convertible bond with extra warrants,
making 23.9% an attractive average annual return.

   For the second half of the life cycle of SPACs, the deSPAC period for SPACs that consummate
a business combination, we implement a simple buy and hold strategy in which an investor
purchases a merged company share on the first day of trading as a deSPAC (merged) company
and holds it for 1 or 3 years (or until December 31, 2021, for recent mergers). We find that the
EW average one-year buy-and-hold return of the merged companies’ common shares is -11.3%,
while the CRSP value-weighted (VW) market index return is 19.4% for the matched period,
resulting in an average one-year market-adjusted return of -30.7%. We also find that while the
EW post-merger one-year common share return is -11.3%, if returns are weighted by the amount
of money that public SPAC investors leave in after redemptions, the returns are not as bad, with
the public cash-weighted return being -3.0%. The higher public cash-weighted return is due to
the pattern that shareholders redeem most of their shares for mergers that subsequently produce
the lowest returns, and thus have relatively little money invested in the worst-performing deals.




                                               4
Consequently, focusing exclusively on the EW common share returns paints a worse picture of
the deSPAC period investments than what a dollar-weighted portfolio produces.

   We calculate the return on warrants as well and, surprisingly, find that the EW average
one-year buy-and-hold return of the merged companies’ warrants is 72.2%. We find that
warrant investors have persistently outperformed common share investors. The warrants,
out-of-the-money call options in many cases, benefited from the bull market of 2009−2021.
The high EW average return is driven by out-of-the-money warrants: the EW average
one-year buy-and-hold return on out-of-the-money warrants is 104.3%, while it is 9.5%
for in-the-money warrants. Because of this large difference, the price-weighted average
one-year return on warrants is a modest 13.5%.

   We then focus on the cross-sectional variation of deSPAC period returns. We find that sponsor
expertise, measured by the sponsor’s experience in an industry related to the merging company’s
operation, and underwriter quality weakly predict higher deSPAC period common share returns.
Furthermore, using SPAC shareholders’ redemption decisions as a proxy for the quality of the
proposed merger (Jenkinson and Sousa (2011)) and the timing of a business combination as
a proxy for the SPAC sponsors’ time pressure (Dimitrova (2017) and Degeorge, Martin, and
Phalippou (2016)), we find that higher redemption ratios and the late timing of the deals (i.e.,
toward the deadline) are associated with both lower SPAC and deSPAC period returns.

   In simple univariate sorts, deSPAC returns are lower for operating companies with less than
$100 million in trailing annual revenue than for larger companies. Furthermore, within a sales
category, the returns are even lower for unprofitable firms than for profitable firms. These patterns
are consistent with the hypothesis advanced by SPAC critics that many of the operating companies
merging with SPACs are low-quality companies that would have had difficulty going public in
a traditional IPO. We should note, however, that similar relations between subsequent investor
returns and sales and profitability are also present among traditional IPOs.

   This paper contributes to the literature by providing a better understanding of SPACs,
in particular focusing on the economic tensions embedded in the structure of SPACs. We
analyze the economic rationale for certain features of SPACs, such as the redemption option
and merger deadlines. We posit that the merger deadline exists to reduce the illiquidity
cost facing SPAC IPO investors. This deadline, however, creates an agency problem that


                                                 5
encourages a sponsor to pursue an unpromising acquisition, because if the SPAC is liquidated,
the sponsor shares and warrants become worthless. The redemption option is designed to
address this agency problem. By redeeming, public shareholders can avoid suffering losses
on their shares, and they may force the SPAC to liquidate. The threat of redemptions thus
helps to align sponsor and public shareholder incentives.

    While previous studies examining SPACs that went public before 2010 (Jenkinson and Sousa
(2011) and Dimitrova (2017), among others), and studies by Renaissance Capital (2020), J.P.
Morgan (2021), and Klausner et al. (2022) using more recent deals, document poor deSPAC
period common share returns, this is the first paper documenting the stark differences in investor
returns between common shares and warrants.5 In addition to documenting returns earned
by public market investors, we also analyze returns earned by PIPE investors and sponsors.
Our calculations require some assumptions, and because the timing of PIPE and sponsor exits
is in general not publicly available, our calculations are based on assumed holding periods.
We report an EW average one-year PIPE return of 9.3%, which is substantially higher than
the average return earned by public market investors, mainly because PIPE investors have
an effective cost that on average is a 20% discount from the market price at the time of the
deSPAC. On average, PIPE investors still underperform the market.

    Sponsors, on average, receive a net dollar gain of $51 million, producing a total return of
619%, to either the liquidation date or one year after the merger if we assume that any sponsor
shares subject to vesting restrictions have zero value.6 These lower bound numbers convert into
EW average annualized sponsor returns, over a period of approximately 2.5 years measured
from the investment at the IPO, of 113%. We document that sponsors sometimes give up a
sizable chunk of their predetermined compensation, making their profits not as lucrative as
critics suggest, especially for weak deals. On average, sponsors forfeit 17% of their common
share promotes and 19% of their private placement warrants, and transfer some of them to
other investors as inducements either not to redeem or to invest new capital. We document,
as do Klausner et al. (2022), that underwriters sometimes also take haircuts; on average they
   5 See a press release from Renaissance Capital (2020) and report by J.P. Morgan (Cembalast (2021)).
   6 The sponsor investment in a SPAC IPO is often referred to as at-risk capital. As reported in Table 10, the average

amount of sponsor at-risk capital for the 162 SPAC IPOs, including 153 mergers and 9 liquidated SPACs, is $7.5 million
(median: $6.8 million). The sponsor at-risk capital as a fraction of the SPAC IPO proceeds is on average 3.5%.




                                                          6
surrender 4% of their deferred commissions. Importantly, this is the first paper to show that these
haircuts have covariance properties that are attractive for other participants: sponsors take larger
haircuts and underwriters forfeit commissions more when the proposed merger is not welcomed
by the market, as evidenced by high redemption ratios.

     Lastly, we caution that the high average annualized returns for SPAC IPO investors and
sponsors that we document are likely to be much lower for SPAC IPOs and deSPACs from 2021
and later. Given the large number of SPACs from 2020 to 2021 that are still searching for a merger
partner as of January 2023, we expect much higher liquidation rates than during our sample
period, dragging down the average returns for these cohorts.



1.    SPACs and the Market for IPOs

This section addresses SPACs from the point of view of an operating company considering going
public and discusses the economics of the SPAC structure. We start by comparing the costs of three
different going public methods: (1) merging with a SPAC, (2) a traditional IPO, and (3) a direct
listing. We discuss the economic roles of sponsors and SPAC IPO investors. Finally, we outline
the relative advantages of going public via merging with a SPAC compared to a traditional IPO.


1.1. The relative costs of going public

Panel A of Table 1 summarizes the costs associated with three different going public options.
The major costs associated with traditional IPOs are twofold: the direct costs of underwriter
commissions and indirect costs from the underpricing (i.e., the money left on the table). In
addition to the direct costs of underwriter commissions and the indirect costs of underpricing,
merging with a SPAC also incurs indirect costs from dilution. The dilution costs are primarily
from two sources: promote shares held by sponsors, and warrants and/or rights held by public
SPAC shareholders and sponsors. For direct listings, the main costs are financial advisory fees
that operating companies pay investment banks. We do not consider miscellaneous costs, such
as SEC registration, audit, and legal fees, for all three cases. Internet Appendix Section A3
explains how we estimate the costs in more detail.

                                — Place Table 1 About Here —

                                                 7
   Inspection of panel A of Table 1 shows that merging with a SPAC is substantially more
expensive than pursuing a traditional IPO, both in terms of the total cost as a fraction of the
cash raised and as a fraction of the post-issuance market capitalization. For the median deSPAC,
the costs are 15.1% of the market cap, as compared to 3.2% for the median IPO. Merging with a
SPAC is even more expensive in comparison with going public via a direct listing, for which the
median cost as a percentage of market cap is only 0.3%. The higher average costs of merging with
a SPAC are not driven by differences in size: the median post-transaction market cap for the IPOs
in our sample is $615 million, and for SPAC mergers the median market cap is $646 million.

   Then why do certain companies select merging with a SPAC instead of a less expensive
method of going public? Are there any benefits that outweigh the extra costs associated
with merging with a SPAC? To answer this question, we first discuss the economic roles
of SPAC sponsors and SPAC IPO investors. Then we list some of the possible advantages
of merging with a SPAC over a traditional IPO.


1.2. The economic role of sponsors and SPAC investors

We view SPAC sponsors as equivalent to specialized private equity (PE) general partners (GPs)
with deep pockets, working as ad hoc underwriters (see Lewellen (2009) and Dimitrova (2017),
among others, for the analogy of SPACs as private equity funds). Stulz (2020) points out that
the growing importance of intangible assets for young companies makes it costlier for them to
be public when specialized private investors can provide mentoring as well as capital. SPAC
sponsors can fill this gap between young companies and specialized private investors, as the
individuals behind many SPAC sponsors are industry veterans.

   Deep pockets allow sponsors to invest their own capital, differentiating them from regular
underwriters in two ways. First, when sponsors, many of which have expertise in certain
industries regarding the merging company, invest their own capital, it serves as a certification
to attract PIPE investors or induce SPAC investors not to redeem their shares. Sponsors and
their affiliates sometimes commit at the time of the IPO to purchase shares at $10 each when
the merger happens in what is known as a Forward Purchase Agreement (FPA).




                                               8
   Second, having deep pockets is also important for weak deals because merger agreements
almost always require a minimum amount of cash to be delivered as a closing condition. When
most SPAC investors redeem and it is difficult to find PIPE investors, a deep-pocketed sponsor
can give inducements to SPAC investors not to redeem or invest its own money to save the
deal. Sponsors are often willing to invest in merging companies at $10 per share, even when
they are of the opinion that the correct value is, say, $6 per share. Their weighted average cost,
including sponsor shares purchased for less than a penny per share, may still be less than
$6. The warrants are another source of possible value, giving a sponsor a strong incentive to
complete the merger by investing its own capital.

   SPAC sponsors are similar to private equity general partners (GPs) in several ways. Both
SPACs and GPs have deadlines for investing the capital provided by investors. These deadlines
are designed to prevent a sponsor or GP from making the investment illiquid for a long period
of time, but at the cost of creating incentives for investing in negative NPV endeavors as the
deadline approaches. In a world of incomplete contracting, the contractual features that we
observe frequently involve tradeoffs. In Section 3, we find that a business combination completed
under time pressure (i.e., toward the end of the SPAC life cycle) tends to underperform, the same
pattern that Degeorge et al. (2016) document for private equity.

   The compensation structure of sponsors and GPs is similar as well, as noted by Rodrigues and
Stegemoller (2013). Private equity (venture capital and buyouts) GPs are frequently compensated
with a 2% per year management fee and carried interest. Metrick and Yasuda (2010) and
Phalippou, Rauch, and Umber (2018) show that the sum of management fees over the life cycle
of PE funds has a present value of about 20% of the capital committed, making it equivalent
to the sponsor’s 20% promote share. The private placement warrants that sponsors purchase at
the time of the IPO are similar to the carried interest received by general partners in a typical
private equity contract because both provide payoffs only when other investors earn positive
returns. Both SPAC sponsors and private equity GPs nurture the operating companies by joining
their boards. Considering these similarities, the compensation of the sponsors does not seem
particularly outrageous when we compare it to the compensation that GPs get in private equity.

   However, the analogy is not perfect. While SPAC sponsors search for target companies
for up to 2 years, private equity GPs search for and then monitor their portfolio companies


                                                9
for many more years. The SPAC sponsors’ reputational concern (i.e., the inability to conduct
future deals if there is a poor track record) is relatively less important compared to private
equity because SPAC IPO investors are downside protected by redemption rights, while
private equity investors do not have redemption rights.

   We posit that the redemption right of SPAC shareholders is a critical component of the
structure of a SPAC, offering an economic role for SPAC IPO investors in addition to being
suppliers of capital. SPACs are faced with three possible outcomes: a good merger, a bad merger,
or no merger (i.e., liquidations). As the deadline approaches, a sponsor that is unable to come up
with a good merger has an incentive to propose a bad merger. Crucially, however, the redemption
option discourages sponsors from doing so. If the shareholders redeem almost all of their shares,
the merger will fail because the SPAC does not have enough cash to fulfill the merger agreement
requirements, unless the sponsor invests its own money or induces other parties to provide
cash, possibly taking a haircut in the process. Internet Appendix Section A2.2 explains how the
evolution of the SPAC market has changed the disciplinary role of SPAC IPO investors.


1.3. The relative advantages of going public via merging with a SPAC

In this section, we outline six potential advantages of merging with a SPAC over a traditional IPO
based on the structure of SPACs, and discuss their validity and limitations.

   First, based on our interpretation of SPAC sponsors as specialized GPs, sponsors can provide
advice and certification. This is similar to venture capital (VC) financing: VCs not only bring
capital to companies but also provide mentorship. Hsu (2004) documents that startup companies
take offers with 10%–14% premoney valuation discounts made by VCs with a high reputation
because many startup companies consider “extra financial” considerations to be important.
Similarly, entrepreneurs who decided to go public via merging with a SPAC often mention the
business insight that sponsors can bring into their companies. Although we cannot observe
counterfactuals (i.e., how much it would cost if a company chose an alternative option to go
public) to directly compare relative costs, as Hsu (2004) does, it is still questionable whether
these “extra financial” values are worth the significant dilution costs associated with merging
with a SPAC. Instead of going public via merging with a SPAC, going public via a traditional
IPO and appointing industry veterans as board members would seem to be less costly.

                                               10
    Second, it is frequently stated that the time it takes for an operating company to negotiate
a merger with a SPAC and win shareholder approval is less than that of a traditional
book-built IPO. How long a traditional IPO takes varies, depending on the circumstances and
how much advanced work the company has done in terms of preparing audited financial
statements, etc.7 Table 2 from Chaplinsky, Hanley, and Moon (2017) reports a median of
104 days in registration (draft registration statement [DRS] to IPO date) for their sample
of 312 Emerging Growth Company IPOs from April 2012 to April 2015. The time it takes
to draft a DRS might be a minimum of a month or so, suggesting a median of about 5
months for the time it takes to do a conventional IPO.

    Panel B of Table 1 shows that, on average, it takes 153 calendar days (5 months) for business
combinations from the announcement to completion. The time it takes from the start of a
merger negotiation and the announcement of a definitive agreement is unknown to the public.
Assuming that it takes a month to negotiate a deal (including lining up PIPE financing in
most cases), it typically takes at least 6 months for an operating company to consummate
a merger with a SPAC. These numbers suggest that for companies with audited financial
statements, SPAC mergers provide no speed advantage. For operating companies without
audited financial statements, however, SPAC mergers might be quicker.

    Third, in the United States, companies going public rarely make forecasts of revenue or
earnings, but these are common with merger announcements for which shareholder approval
is needed, whether it is a merger between two operating companies or a merger between a SPAC
and an operating company. These projections are largely shielded from lawsuits with a “safe
harbor” provision in U.S. laws for mergers (Cazier, Merkley, and Treu (2020), among others),
but not for initial public offerings: with mergers, plaintiffs have the burden of proof to show
that managers knowingly made false statements, rather than merely having had bad luck, if the
company fails to meet the projections. Thus, certain companies wanting to make forward-looking
statements to maximize their premoney valuations can potentially benefit from merging with
SPACs, essentially engaging in regulatory arbitrage.8 A 2021 statement by SEC staff, however,
  7 Companies going public with a traditional IPO or direct listing are required to have audited financial statements,

but a private operating company merging with a SPAC does not have to satisfy this requirement until after the merger
occurs.
   8 See Klausner et al. (2022) for a more detailed discussion of this regulatory perspective.




                                                         11
questioned whether this regulatory arbitrage was consistent with existing law.9 Furthermore, the
SEC in April 2022 proposed rules aimed at eliminating any regulatory arbitrage that exists.10
Critics of SPACs allege that many of the revenue and profit forecasts are based on extremely
optimistic assumptions. Consistent with this criticism, Dambra, Even-Tov, and George (2022)
document that actual revenue and profits on average are below the forecasts.

    Fourth, merging with a SPAC may provide relative certainty compared to a traditional IPO.
With a traditional book-built IPO, the offer price and proceeds are negotiated after conducting
a roadshow and observing indications of interest from potential investors, making the terms
uncertain until the very last day. SPAC merger terms, which involve agreeing on a premoney
value of the operating company, are negotiated before additional information about the market’s
opinion is known. Because there is still uncertainty about the redemption rate, however, operating
companies negotiate the minimum cash that must be delivered as a closing condition. In the
worst-case scenario when sponsors cannot deliver the minimum cash, we observe that companies
can still waive this condition and go public without raising much capital.

    Fifth, sponsors and underwriters may agree to reduce their compensation to prevent a
merger from collapsing. When there is valuation uncertainty, the merger announcement may
be greeted positively or negatively by the market. Should any positive announcement return
not be reversed by the time of the merger, money is left on the table by the operating company.
Kiesel, Klingelhofer, Schiereck, and Vismara (2022) report that the average merger announcement
return for a sample of 375 U.S. SPACs between 2012 and June 2021 was 6.4%. But if it looks
as if the redemption rate will be high, the sponsor (and underwriter) may take a haircut in
order to salvage the deal. As with other merger agreements, contingent features, such as vesting
or earnout provisions, can be negotiated. For example, sponsor shares are usually subject
to lockup provisions and sometimes are also subject to vesting provisions. These contingent
features provide contracting flexibility among different stakeholders for SPACs. In contrast,
with a traditional IPO, if there is weak demand, the issuing firm would have to cut the price
   9 See the April 8, 2021, statement from SEC Acting Director of the Division of Corporate Finance John Coates (SEC

(2021)) in which he points out that the SEC does not define what constitutes an initial public offering. Since SPAC
mergers both raise capital for a private operating company and result in it becoming listed, the merger has many
functional aspects of an IPO. See Coates (2022) for further clarifications.
  10 See the SEC’s press release (SEC (2022)).




                                                        12
  and issue size to preserve the deal. Thus, a SPAC merger potentially offers more attractive
  covariance properties to the issuing firm’s shareholders than a traditional IPO.

      Sixth, in general, private companies sell at a discount relative to more liquid public
  companies. If a SPAC can negotiate a merger based on a private market valuation of the
  operating company, a source of value is the increase in valuation that occurs when the merger
  makes the stock liquid. The negative deSPAC returns that we document, however, suggest
  that the valuations being negotiated are on average too high.

      In panel A of Table 2, we compare the characteristics of companies going public either by
  merging with a SPAC or by conducting a traditional IPO based on two sample periods. During
  2013–2020, companies merging with SPACs tended to be larger, as measured by median sales, and
  older than companies doing a traditional IPO. In 2021, when the SPAC market was at its peak,
  these patterns reversed. The relative proportion of profitable companies flipped, even though
  smaller, younger, and not profitable biotech companies mostly go public via traditional IPOs.

                                     — Place Table 2 About Here —

      In panel B of Table 2, we formally test how observable characteristics can predict which
  companies choose one over the other method of going public. Specifically, we report coefficients
  for the below probit model, which includes dummy variables for whether the operating company
  is profitable, a tech company, or a biotech company, and year fixed effects, for the companies
  that went public between January 2013 and December 2021.


Merging with a SPACi = a ∗ ln(1 + sales)i + b ∗ ln(1 + age)i + c ∗ Pro f itablei + d ∗ Techi + e ∗ Biotechi + ei
                                                                                                          (1)

      Sales, age, and profitability combined predict less than 1% of the choice, demonstrating
  that these observable characteristics have little predictive power. Instead, two industry dummy
  variables, tech and biotech, and year fixed effects explain about 24% of the variation. However,
  one noteworthy finding is that unprofitable companies are more likely to merge with a SPAC,
  suggesting that the SPAC boom in 2020 and 2021 allowed lower-quality companies to go public




                                                      13
via merging with a SPAC.11 This pattern is consistent with the fact that deSPAC deals include
severely underperforming companies. In untabulated findings, of 41 deSPAC mergers between
2012 and 2017, 12 (29%) of them had 3-year buy-and-hold returns lower than -90%, while among
756 traditional IPOs from the same period, only 66 (9%) of them produced returns lower than
-90%. The higher propensity for severe underperformance among deSPACs is consistent with
the Jenkinson and Sousa (2011) view that the “extreme incentives” that sponsors face result
in acquisitions of low-quality companies that would not be able to go public via a traditional
IPO process.12 Consistent with the low-quality hypothesis, Kim, Park, Peterson, and Wilson
(2022) report that operating companies that merge with a SPAC are more likely to file earnings
restatements than companies that go public with a traditional IPO.

     Some recent theory papers discuss the choice between merging with a SPAC and conducting
a traditional IPO. Bai, Ma, and Zheng (2021) develop a model and predict that riskier firms
tend to merge with SPACs. Similarly, Gryglewicz, Hartman-Glaser, and Mayer (2021) argue that
merging with a SPAC is a preferred mode of funding for companies subject to severe adverse
selection. Our Table 2 regressions provide modest support for these predictions. As of the end
of 2022, over 500 SPACs are searching or in negotiations for a merger. Future studies with more
data points can revisit the question of which companies choose to merge with a SPAC to test
whether the patterns have changed over time.



2.    Data and Sample Construction

In this paper, we study 1,071 SPAC IPOs in the United States between January 2010 and December
2021 after excluding SPACs traded in over-the-counter (OTC) markets.13 In the Internet Appendix,
Tables A1 and A2 report the number of SPAC IPOs and the capital they raised for 1990–2009
and 2010–2022, respectively. We focus on SPACs that went public in 2010 or later because the
  11 In unreported results, we ran separate probit regressions for 2013–2020 (N=1,225) and 2021 (N=510). The 2021

results drive the negative coefficient for the profitability dummy that we report in panel B, but the other coefficients
do not reliably vary between the two subperiods.
  12 We should note that for those deals, however, the SPAC shareholder redemption rates are almost always close

to 100%, meaning that the actual losses of SPAC investors are minimal, and these merging companies end up going
public with little capital raised.
  13 We exclude 15 SPAC IPOs from 2010 to 2011 traded in OTC markets because of possible unobservable differences

between SPACs traded in major exchanges and OTC markets. Also, stale prices for these IPOs, especially for warrants
and rights, prevent us from calculating SPAC period returns easily.



                                                          14
structure of SPACs fundamentally changed in 2010.14 For the SPACs that went public before
2010, Jenkinson and Sousa (2011), Howe and O’Brien (2012), Cumming, Hass, and Schweizer
(2014), Dimitrova (2017), and Vulanovic (2017), among others, provide in-depth analyses, mostly
focusing on the deSPAC period common share returns.

    For the SPAC period returns, we study the 458 exchange-listed SPAC IPOs from January 2010
to December 2020. We measure the SPAC period returns as of December 2021. We restrict our
sample to the SPACs that went public in December 2020 or before in order to provide enough
time to include both SPACs that have completed business combinations and those that have
liquidated. A typical SPAC has 18 to 24 months to complete a business combination with an
option to extend the deadline for up to 3 months. For the deSPAC period returns earned by public
market investors, we focus on 152 business combinations completed by the end of December
2020 to give at least one year of returns for recent mergers, as we calculate the deSPAC period
returns until December 31, 2021. For the deSPAC period returns earned by PIPE investors and
sponsors, we use deSPAC deals by SPAC IPOs since 2015 that were completed by March 31,
2021, and include returns through March 31, 2022.15

    We have three broad data sources. First, the primary data source on SPAC IPOs
before 2016 and for traditional operating company IPOs is the Refinitiv (also known as
Securities Data Company, or SDC Platinum, and more recently as Eikon) new issues
database, augmented with data from Dealogic.

    Second, we use two commercial SPAC databases: Gritstone Asset Management’s OmniView
(https://www.gritstoneam.com/omniview) and SPAC Research (https://www.spacresearch.com).
These databases provide detailed information regarding the structure of each SPAC and its
derivative securities, such as the exercise price of warrants and rights, the number of warrants
and/or rights that come with each unit, and the fraction of common share that a warrant or right
converts into. The data also include the prices of units, common shares, warrants, and rights; and
information about SPAC sponsors, the initial trust amount, the redemption history, the identity of
merging companies, and various announcement and business combination (or liquidation) dates.
   14 Section A2 of the Internet Appendix discusses differences between SPACs that went public before 2009 and after

2009.
   15 We do not include the mergers from the SPACs that went public before 2015 to make the manual collection of data

manageable. The information is mostly from SEC filings. These filings are idiosyncratic and often change from one
filing to the next for the same merger due to the dynamic nature of merger negotiations.


                                                         15
     We validate the accuracy of the data by cross-examining the two commercial SPAC databases.
If we find any discrepancies or irregularities, we do further investigations using EDGAR, Capital
IQ, Pitchbook, Dealogic, Bloomberg, and Refinitiv Eikon to make necessary adjustments. We
extend the data by hand-collecting further information related to the deSPACing process, such
as the estimate of economic benefits (i.e., promotes) that SPAC sponsors and underwriters forfeit
(i.e., “haircuts”), vesting provisions, and extra inducements that sponsors and merging companies
offer for nonredeeming shareholders and/or PIPE investors.

     Third, for the deSPAC period common share returns, we use CRSP daily returns until
December 2021. To calculate warrant returns for the same period, we collect warrant prices
from Bloomberg and Refinitiv. We use Compustat, EDGAR filings, and Capital IQ to record
profitability, sales, and founding dates data for merging companies.16



3.    Returns

In this section, we examine investor returns by breaking down the SPAC lifecycle into two
periods. The first is the SPAC period, starting from the SPAC IPO date and ending on either
the business combination completion date or the liquidation date. For the SPACs with completed
business combinations, we define the deSPAC period as starting on the day that the SPAC starts
to trade as an operating company with a new company name and ticker symbol. We document
comprehensive investor returns for the two periods and discuss the cross-sectional patterns.


3.1. Public market investor returns for the SPAC and deSPAC periods

We first document returns from the SPAC period, which starts on the SPAC IPO date and ends
five trading days before either a business combination completion date or a liquidation date.
We report returns based on a variation of a buy and hold strategy that we term the “optimal
redemption” strategy. This strategy calculates an annualized return for an investor who purchases
a SPAC unit, which consists of a common share and a prespecified number of derivative securities
(warrants and/or rights), at the offer price. We assume that the investor sells each component of
  16 For founding dates, we exchanged our files with those used in Bai et al. (2021) and then reinvestigated the 10% or

so of firms for which there were disagreements. This procedure resulted in both sets of authors revising approximately
5% of their founding dates to earlier years.


                                                          16
the SPAC unit at the closing price five trading days before the close of the business combination
or liquidation. For common shares, we assume that investors redeem if the redemption value is
higher than the market price and sell if the redemption value is lower than the market price.

    Our strategy is based on the following observations. First, dividing the lifecycle of SPACs
into SPAC and deSPAC periods makes sense as Klausner et al. (2022) document that more than
92% of SPAC period investors identified in 13-F filings exit before the completion of a business
combination. For the investors that do not redeem, they frequently sell their shares in the market
before a merger is completed. Second, we calculate returns based on the prices five days prior to
the business combination or liquidation dates to make this strategy implementable considering
the time it takes to redeem shares due to settlement delays, etc. Third, during most of our
sample period, SPAC period returns are mostly realized at the time of and after SPACs announce
business combinations, with minimum price changes before the announcement. That said, as
it is not feasible to predict when SPACs would announce mergers, a realistic strategy requires
investing from the IPO.17 Finally, based on the authors’ conversations with multiple practitioners,
we confirm that buying at the IPO and selling or redeeming before a merger is completed
represents the investment strategy pursued by many institutional investors. Specifically, our
strategy calculates the annualized SPAC period return, RSPAC , as


                                        Ps /Pi = (1 + RSPAC )( Months/12) ,                                            (2)


where Ps = max(Common_Pt−5 , Common_Rt−5 ) + Price Structure o f Warrant × Warrant_Pt−5 +
Price Structure o f Right × Right_Pt−5 Pi = IPO Price o f a Unit. Months refers to the number
of months between the SPAC IPO and the business combination or liquidation, Price structure
of warrant (right) is the fraction of a warrant (right) a SPAC unit includes. Common_Pt−5 is the
common share price, Common_Rt−5 is the redemption value for a common share, Warrant_Pt−5
is the warrant price, and Right_Pt−5 is the price for a right, all measured as the closing market
price five trading days prior to the business combination or liquidation date. Note that while all
  17 While some SPACs do not announce business combinations within 18–24 months, some others announce them as

early as within a month from the IPO. Typically, beyond the first week of trading after the IPO, there is relatively little
trading volume until a merger is announced. In late 2020 and the first 2 months of 2021, many SPACs that had not
announced a merger traded well above $10 per unit, but the prices dropped in March of 2021. In 2022, most SPACs
that had announced, but not completed, mergers traded at a price below the redemption value of the trust account.




                                                            17
common shares come with the redemption right, warrants are occasionally renegotiated to be
redeemed at the time of the merger. For warrant and right prices, we calculate prices by adjusting
the price structures for each SPAC. For example, if a SPAC unit includes one share of common
share and one-third of a warrant, we multiply the warrant price by its price structure (one-third)
as an investor purchasing a unit from the IPO would receive one-third of a warrant.18 Our use
of price changes generates total returns because no SPACs pay dividends.

                                        — Place Table 3 About Here —

    Table 3 reports annualized SPAC period returns based on SPACs that went public between
January 2010 and December 2020. Panel A reports annualized SPAC period returns based
on the year of the SPAC IPO, equally weighting each observation. On average, SPAC period
investors earned 23.9% per year based on our optimal redemption strategy.19 The average
first-day return of SPAC IPOs during 2010 – December 2020 was 0.5%. For investors who
bought at the first-day close rather than the offer price, the annualized return was 0.3%
lower, 23.6%, over the average 16 months holding period.

    Panel B documents the important fact that even liquidated SPACs produce positive returns.
These positive returns are because although a typical SPAC pays 2% of the proceeds as an up-
front underwriting fee, sponsors purchase warrants or units and deposit a portion of the cash into
the trust account, covering the underwriting fee. This is one mechanism that sponsors utilize to
attract SPAC IPO investors: offering downside protection in the form of a money-back guarantee
gross of investment banking fees. Therefore, SPACs have at least 100% of the IPO proceeds in
the initial trust account, which then collects interest, delivering on average 2.0% annual returns
even for the liquidated ones. Of 458 SPACs that went public between January 2010 and December
2020, 0.51% was the lowest annualized return on any SPAC IPO during the SPAC period. To
  18 A SPAC can structure its unit to provide warrants worth one-third of a common share per unit in two ways. A

majority of SPACs state that each unit includes one-third warrant and each full warrant gives investors the right to
buy a share. Some SPACs, however, design the unit to provide one full warrant, which gives investors the right to buy
one-third of a share. In this case, after a SPAC unit becomes unbundled, warrants convert into warrants that entitle
the holder to buy one full share, making them identical to the first case. Regardless of which structure is used, when
warrants start to trade separately, the price of the warrant reflects the warrant having the right to buy a full share. Our
calculations make the appropriate adjustments.
  19 Using 47 completed mergers between January 2019 and June 2020, Klausner et al. (2022) report annualized SPAC

period returns of 11.6%. Our average annualized return is higher primarily because the large number of SPACs in the
second half of 2020 had very high SPAC period returns. As of January 2023, the large number of SPAC IPOs from 2021
(613), which are not in our sample, appear to be producing annualized SPAC period returns in the low single digits.



                                                            18
avoid a potential look-ahead bias, we also include 117 SPACs that went public in or prior to
2020 but had not completed a business combination or liquidated as of December 2021. We refer
to them as ongoing SPACs and calculate their mark-to-market returns using prices at the end
of December 2021. Panel B shows that these 117 ongoing SPACs traded at a modest premium,
producing similar returns (2.3%) to SPACs that are liquidated.

    Panel C reports that larger SPACs provide slightly higher returns, as the average IPO proceeds-
weighted annualized return of 27.1% is higher than the EW return of 23.9%.

    Given the downside protection of SPAC IPOs, we interpret the SPAC period investment as
equivalent to investing in default-free Treasury Bills, along with an option to convert into the
common stock of a company going public. These features make SPAC units equivalent to default-
free convertible bonds. Actually, SPAC units are even better than a default-free convertible bond,
in that they typically also contain a warrant to buy a fraction of an additional share, giving
even more upside potential. Thus, many hedge funds, some of which are known as the “SPAC
mafia,” find the risk-adjusted returns attractive.20

    Next, we examine the deSPAC period investment returns. Tables 4 and 5 are based on
a simple buy-and-hold strategy in which an investor purchases a merged company stock
or warrant at the beginning of the first day of trading for which the SPAC has a new
entity name and new stock and warrant ticker symbols.

    We calculate buy-and-hold returns until the earlier of the 1- or 3-year anniversary, or the
delisting date (or December 31, 2021). When the full 1- or 3-year data are not available, we
calculate the returns based on available data. For example, if a merged company started to
trade on March 16, 2021, and was still listed on December 31, 2021, we report the buy-and-
hold returns from March 16, 2021, to December 31, 2021, as both 1- and 3-year returns. As
a benchmark, we report the market return using the CRSP value-weighted index matched to
the investment period of each merged company.
  20 Internet Appendix Table A4 lists the largest holders of SPACs as of December 2021. Many hedge funds have used

leverage when buying SPAC IPOs. Assume that a hedge fund that borrowed $5 million at 3% per year and held $5
million in equity could buy close to $10 million of SPAC IPOs. If the SPAC investment produced a return of 23.9%
after one year, the $12.39 million payoff net of $5.15 million in principal and interest would produce a net payoff of
$7.24 million on the $5 million equity investment, a return of 44.8%.




                                                         19
    Specifically,    the   1-    and    3-year    buy-and-hold          returns       for   deSPAC   company       i’s
common share (Table 4) are defined as

                                            min( T, delist, Dec. 31, 2021)
                             BHRCi,T =                  ∏                    (1 + Ri,t ) − 1                      (3)
                                                        t =1


where Ri,t is the net return in period t on deSPAC company i’s common share,
compounded daily using the CRSP data.

    Table 4 reports the deSPAC period percentage buy-and-hold returns on common shares for
152 business combinations consummated between January 2010 and December 2020. Table 4
shows that common shares have EW average deSPAC period one-year returns of -11.3%,
underperforming the market by an average of 30.7%.21 The low returns are consistent with prior
studies covering SPACs that went public before 2010 (Jenkinson and Sousa (2011); Dimitrova
(2017), among others), and contemporary papers studying recent SPACs, including Klausner
et al. (2022) and Kiesel et al. (2022), all of which find poor deSPAC period common share returns.

                                       — Place Table 4 About Here —

    Importantly, Table 4, panel B, demonstrates that different weighting methods yield noticeably
different outcomes. For example, assume that there are two SPACs, A and B, and SPAC
A raised $400 million and SPAC B raised $100 million from their IPOs. Both completed
business combinations and the redemption ratio for SPAC A is 10% and SPAC B is 90%. If
the one-year deSPAC period common share return is 10% for SPAC A and -30% for SPAC
B, the EW return is -10% ( 10%+−
                               2
                                 30%
                                     ). However, the IPO proceeds weighted return is 2%
(10% × 400400             100
           +100 + -30%× 400+100 ). If we weight based on the SPAC IPO proceeds delivered

to the merging companies (public cash), $360 million for SPAC A and $10 million for SPAC
                                                        10
B, the average return is 8.92% (10% × 360360
                                          +10 + -30%× 360+10 ).

    Our optimal redemption strategy from the SPAC period investment implies that the
redemption ratio is bimodally distributed: all SPAC shareholders keep (or sell) their shares if the
  21 In the Internet Appendix, Table A3 reports Fama-French three-factor model regression results for deSPAC period

stock returns. The results are consistent with the buy-and-hold returns reported in Table 4. Table 4 ends with deSPACs
in December 2020. In the first three quarters 2021, there were another 146 deSPACs, with equally weighted average
one-year returns of -62.1%. If these deSPACs are included, the EW average one-year deSPAC return falls from -11.3%
in Table 4 to -36.2%.



                                                          20
share price is higher than the redemption value and all SPAC shareholders redeem their shares
if the share price is lower than the redemption value. Therefore, mergers that generate little
investor enthusiasm tend to have high redemption ratios and thus little public cash is delivered
to the merging companies. As SPAC investors protect themselves by exercising redemption
options, panel B of Table 4 shows that the average public cash-weighted investor return of -3.0%
is not as bad as the EW average of -11.3%. Later, in Table 7, we show that higher redemption
ratios predict lower market-adjusted deSPAC period common share returns.

    At the time of the deSPAC, operating company shareholders, frequently referred to as legacy
shareholders, see their existing shares convert into the publicly traded shares of the merged
company. Most if not all of the shares owned by legacy shareholders are subject to lockup
provisions.22 Because the timing and purchase price of these existing shares is generally not
observable, we cannot compute the premerger annualized returns for legacy shareholders.

    In Table 5, we report deSPAC period warrant returns for business combinations consummated
between January 2010 and December 2020. Note that we only analyze 142 of the 152 business
combinations during this period for warrant returns. This reduced sample size is because
five SPACs did not have warrants from the beginning, and five SPACs redeemed warrants
either for common shares or for cash during the deSPACing process. Additionally, the
warrant price information was not available for six companies. For these cases, we assume
that the warrant returns were the same as common share returns. Our qualitative results
do not change if we also exclude these six cases. The 1- and 3-year buy-and-hold returns
for deSPAC company i’s warrant are defined as

                                            Pi _min( T, delist, Dec. 31, 2021)
                            BHRWi,t =                                          −1                                  (4)
                                                    Pi _deSPAC_date

where Pi _min( T, delist) is the price of deSPAC company i’s warrant at time T (1- or 3-
year anniversary) or the delisting date or December 31, 2021, whichever comes first, and
Pi _deSPAC_date is the closing price of deSPAC company i’s warrant on the business completion
  22 Operating company shareholders normally receive shares based on an assumed value of $10, which is used to

calculate the conversion ratio of legacy operating company shares into publicly tradable shares, for a given negotiated
premoney valuation. Sometimes contingent payments occur (more shares if certain share price or operating targets are
hit). In many cases, all operating company shares are subject to a 6-month lockup period. It is common, however, for
the lockups to apply to “officers and directors and certain shareholders” or “all shareholders who own 75,000 shares
or more” rather than all shareholders.


                                                          21
date. While we use prices for warrants because warrants do not pay dividends, we use total
returns for common shares because common shares sometimes pay dividends.

    Most warrants have $11.50 as an exercise price, a 15% premium to the IPO price. A notable
feature of the SPAC warrants held by public market investors is that merged companies usually
have call rights for the warrants when the stock price hits a certain level, usually $18. Thus,
although the warrants typically have a 5-year post-merger maturity date, they may be called early.
For example, Virgin Galactic, which went public by merging with Social Capital Hedosophia
Holdings Corp. on October 25, 2019, announced on March 13, 2020, that it would redeem its
warrants on a “cashless basis.” Under the Warrant Agreement, one warrant was exchanged
for 0.4927 of a share of common stock, with warrantholders not paying the $11.50 exercise
price. When the warrant redemption happens, we calculate the investment returns based on
the assumption that investors sell warrants on the last day of the redemption deadline, instead
of becoming common shareholders. Because of the caps, the public market warrants are not
as valuable as if they were uncapped. It should be noted that the private placement warrants
purchased by the sponsor at the time of the IPO typically are uncapped.

                                      — Place Table 5 About Here —

    For the deSPACs with traded warrants, panel A of Table 5 reports the stark difference between
investor returns on common shares and warrants for the companies that went public via SPACs:
while common shares underperform the market, warrants on average substantially outperform
common shares. The EW average one-year warrant return is a remarkable 72.2%.

    It is important to discuss the possible reasons behind the substantial difference between
common share returns and warrant returns. The COVID-19 pandemic in our sample period
increased the volatility in the market, potentially leading to higher returns for the warrants in the
later cohorts.23 More importantly, the high market returns during 2019–2021 benefitted warrants
from deSPACs in 2019–2020, which comprise over half of our sample, as shown in panel A of
  23 Related to the volatility, Blomkvist and Vulanovic (2020) report that from July 2003 to December 2019, SPAC IPO

volume was significantly negatively related to the VIX index, a measure of stock market volatility. SPAC IPO volume
skyrocketed over April 2020 to March 2021, however, a period during which the VIX index was persistently above
the 2003–2019 average, suggesting that their in-sample evidence does not hold out of sample. Consistent with this
observation, Table 5 of Bai et al. (2021), using quarterly data from July 2003 to September 2020, report that SPAC IPO
volume is insignificantly related to the logged level of the VIX index.




                                                         22
Table 5. In general, the bull market of 2009−2021 resulted in high average returns for out-of-the-
money call options, whether or not they were SPAC warrants.

    Another possibility is that the market may have undervalued warrants during the merging
process, with this mispricing overlooked because investments in warrants are not scalable. To
illustrate this point, panel A of Table 5’s Units column represents a deSPAC period investment
strategy replicating the initial specification of the SPAC IPO unit. For example, assume that a
SPAC unit includes a common share and half of a warrant but no rights, and the price of the
common share is $10, and the price of the warrant to buy a full share is $1 on the first trading
day as a merged company. If one-year buy and hold returns for the common share and warrant
are -10% and 20%, respectively, this unit holder return would be -8.57% ( -10%×( $10$10
                                                                                    +$0.5 ) +

20%×( $10$0.5
          +$0.5 )). Panel A shows that the average unit holder investment return is higher than

the common share investment return by only 3.7% over one year: deSPAC period investors still
lose money and substantially underperform the market in most years.

    The minimal improvement in deSPAC period unit returns shows this scaling problem.
The average price of warrants on the first day of trading as a merged company is $1.60,
while it is $10.50 for the common shares, and most units provide less than one full warrant.24
Making this scaling problem worse, most high warrant returns come from the out-of-the-money
warrants, many of which traded for less than $1.00. Panel B of Table 5 shows that warrants
with lower prices at the time of the merger outperform warrants with higher starting prices,
as the price-weighted warrant returns are lower than the EW returns. Our untabulated
analysis shows that the EW average one-year buy-and-hold return on out-of-the-money
warrants is 104.3%, while it is 9.5% for in-the-money warrants.

    One important point to properly understand the deSPAC period returns is that, given
that many of the underperforming common shares are redeemed during the deSPACing
process, while warrants typically do not have redemption rights, this unit holder investment
strategy reported in Table 4 does not necessarily reflect the actual deSPAC period investment
returns earned by the average investor. Instead, the public cash-weighted average return
  24 The median number of warrants in a unit for SPAC IPOs since 2015 that completed a merger before March 2021 is

one half. For SPAC IPOs in 2020 that completed a merger by March 2021, the median is one-third.




                                                       23
of -3.0% in Table 4 for shares and the warrant price-weighted average of 13.5% in Table 5
for warrants are probably the best measures.


3.2. Cross-sectional patterns in deSPAC period common share returns

In this section, we examine cross-sectional variations of deSPAC period common share returns.
We examine the effect on deSPAC returns of the characteristics that can be observed at the time
of the IPOs, specifically the quality of sponsors and SPAC IPO underwriters and the potential
dilution based on the structure of SPAC units. We also use information available at the time of
the merger, such as the profitability and size (as measured by sales) of the operating company,
SPAC period returns, the SPAC shareholder’s redemption decisions, and the time between the
SPAC IPO and the business combination completion. We discuss common share returns only, as
warrant returns generally show similar patterns, but with larger variations.

    First, we report deSPAC returns based on a simple sort that measures two characteristics of the
operating company: its annual sales and its profitability. Table 6 reports the average returns in the
year after listing for companies merging with SPACs and companies conducting traditional IPOs.
Panel A shows deSPAC period share returns, and panel B shows traditional IPO returns from the
first closing market price. Both panel A and panel B show that companies that had sales of more
than $100 million produce higher returns than their smaller counterparts. Also, companies with a
positive net income for the 12 months before listing tend to perform better than companies with
a negative net income.25 The deSPAC returns, both on a raw and benchmark-adjusted basis, are
lower than IPO returns. The Table 6 patterns are consistent with the hypothesis that the operating
companies choosing to go public by merging with a SPAC are of lower quality than the IPO firms.

                                       — Place Table 6 About Here —

    In Table 7 we examine the cross-sectional patterns of the deSPAC period common share
returns in a regression setting. We construct a dummy variable Sponsor Expertise to measure
whether the sponsors have expertise in the businesses that merging companies conduct.
The variable equals one if one or more key members of a sponsor have work experience in
  25 For the IPO sample, the one-year abnormal returns for companies with less than $100 million in sales are slightly

lower for profitable firms (-8.1%) than for unprofitable firms (-5.2%). The sample size of small profitable firms is only
52 over this 9-year sample period. In unreported results, if the sample period is extended to 1990–2020, the unprofitable
small firms have lower abnormal returns than the profitable small firms.


                                                           24
an industry that a merging company operates in, and equals zero otherwise. As the IPO
literature suggests that high-quality issuers and high-quality underwriters match with each
other (Carter, Dark, and Singh (1998) and Fernando, Gatchev, and Spindt (2005), among
others), we also test whether the quality of underwriters can predict subsequent returns. Using
underwriter reputation ranks (Underwriter Rank) from Loughran and Ritter (2004) based on
the 1 (low) to 9 (high) prestige scale introduced by Carter and Manaster (1990), we measure
the quality of the lead left bookrunner for the SPAC IPO.26

    We also test how the potential dilution from the warrants affects various returns. While
some SPACs do not include any derivative securities, most of them include at least one
type of derivative security, usually warrants. The Dilution per unit measures the fraction of
a common share that derivative securities included in a unit can convert into. Based on our
sample, the minimum potential dilution per unit is zero, and the maximum is 1.1 when
a unit includes a warrant and a right, and a warrant converts to one common share and
a right converts to one-tenth of a common share.27 Therefore, there is significant variation
regarding the potential dilution: when exercised, warrants and rights would become common
shares, diluting the ownership of existing shareholders.

    In Table 7, we also examine five other variables that can be observed around the time of
the merger, but not at the time of the IPO. The first variable, SPAC period return, measures the
annualized return for SPAC IPO investors reported in Table 3 based on our optimal redemption
strategy (equation (2)). Two other factors are introduced by prior studies.

                                       — Place Table 7 About Here —

    Motivated by Jenkinson and Sousa (2011), we focus on the SPAC shareholders’ redemption
decisions. Specifically, Jenkinson and Sousa (2011) classify deSPAC deals into two categories:
“Good SPACs,” when the price for a SPAC common share is higher than the redemption
value, which is the trust value per share, and “Bad SPACs,” when the price for a SPAC
common share is lower than the redemption value, measured at the time of shareholder
voting for the proposed mergers. They find that Bad SPACs significantly underperform
  26 For the complete updated list of underwriters and their ranks, see Jay Ritter’s website “IPO Underwriter

Reputation Rankings (1980–2022)” (https://site.warrington.ufl.edu/ritter/ipo-data/).
  27 Rights, while less common, typically have a zero exercise price. They are essentially a fraction, usually one-tenth,

of a bonus share instead of a bonus warrant topping off a SPAC unit.


                                                           25
Good SPACs during the deSPAC period. We revisit this issue based on SPAC shareholders’
redemption decisions measured by Redemption Ratio.

   We also revisit the Dimitrova (2017) finding that deSPAC performance is worse for
deSPAC deals announced near the end of the deadline (typically 18 to 24 months), similar
to the findings in other settings, such as in private equity (Degeorge et al. (2016), among
others). We include ln(Months), the logarithm of the number of months between the SPAC
IPO and the business combination completion (or liquidation).

   Columns 1 and 4 of Table 7 report regression outcomes considering information observable
at the time of the IPO, while columns 2 and 5 include variables that become available at the
time of the merger. Columns 3 and 6 combine all of the factors. Inspection of Table 7 shows that
SPACs with sponsors with relevant industry expertise and more reputable lead left underwriters
tend to outperform, while more potential dilution predicts the opposite. Interestingly, the SPAC
period return has a weakly negative relationship, showing the potential wealth transfer between
SPAC period shareholders and deSPAC period investors embedded in the structure of SPACs.
Alternatively, this relation could be an artifact of the SPAC bubble inflating and deflating.

   Echoing the findings of Jenkinson and Sousa (2011) and Dimitrova (2017) from SPACs
before 2010, Table 7 reports that the redemption ratio and the time between the IPO and the
merger are negatively associated with the market-adjusted deSPAC period common share
returns. The coefficient of -0.355 in column 3 implies that a deal with a 5% redemption
ratio will have a 32% better one-year return than a deal with a 95% redemption ratio,
consistent with the evidence in panel B of Table 4.

   In our Table 6 categorizations, companies with lower sales had lower deSPAC returns. In
the Table 7 multivariate regressions, however, ln(1+Sales) has a weakly negative coefficient.
The lack of a positive coefficient for ln(1+Sales) is attributable to the higher redemption
ratios that are typical for the smaller companies; the market correctly predicts that on
average these companies will produce lower returns.




                                                26
3.3. Returns for PIPE investors

As with traditional IPOs, raising capital is often important for an operating company that goes
public via a deSPAC merger. As a result, deSPAC mergers almost always have a minimum cash
requirement specifying the minimum amount of cash that the SPAC must deliver to the operating
company. Because redemptions are uncertain, sponsors frequently line up institutional investors
to provide capital as Private Investment in Public Equity (PIPE) investors in a deSPAC merger. In
addition, unaffiliated PIPE investors also provide external validation of valuations in a deSPAC
merger, resulting in a lower redemption ratio.28

    Of the 153 exchange-listed deSPAC mergers that were completed by March 2021 based
on SPACs that went public in 2015 or later, 105 included PIPE investments in common
stock and, sometimes, warrants. All of these involved one or more investors, such as a
private equity firm, purchasing shares at the time of the deSPAC. Some other deSPACs
involved PIPE investors purchasing convertible bonds or other securities, but because these
securities are typically not traded, we cannot compute returns.

    PIPE investors typically buy shares or units at $10 each, but in many cases receive transfers
from the sponsor that lowers their effective cost. Table 8 shows that, on average, the effective
cost for PIPE investors that purchase shares is a discount of 20.1% relative to the market price
at the merger closing date. For these 105 deSPACs, the average one-year return for the PIPE
investors is 9.3%, substantially higher than the average one-year return of -19.8% that public
market shareholders received. Note that these numbers are not directly comparable to our Table 4
deSPAC return numbers earned by public market investors because here we exclude deSPACs
from the early years of our sample period and include deSPACs from the first quarter of 2021, and
compute returns until March 31, 2022, rather than December 31, 2021.29 The difference between
the average PIPE investor return (9.3%) and the public market shareholder return (-19.8%) is
greater than the 20% discount received by PIPE investors at the merger closing date mainly
  28 In early 2022, almost all of the PIPE investors either received concessions or were affiliated parties. Furthermore,

PIPE investments switched from common stock to structured financing, such as convertible bonds. Thus, PIPE
investments no longer provide the external price validation that previously occurred. PIPE shares or units usually
have no lockup period, but the unregistered shares that are issued typically are not tradable until the shares are
registered, a process that might take a month or more.
  29 The 105 deSPACs include 24 deals in the first quarter of 2021, for which the first-year returns covers the first

quarter of 2022, a down market.




                                                           27
because of how returns are calculated. As an illustration, if a PIPE investor pays $10 each for
two deSPACs with market prices of $10 and $16.67, respectively, the average discount would be
20%. If both stocks go down 20%, to $8.00 and $13.33, respectively, the EW average return for
public market investors would be -20%. For PIPE investors, however, the average return would
be 6.7%. It is worth noting that even though average PIPE returns are a positive 9.3% in the year
after the investment, they still underperformed the market.

                                 — Place Table 8 About Here —

     We also categorize the PIPE deals in two ways in Table 8. Our first categorization is based on
the size of the PIPE investments relative to the SPAC IPO proceeds. The 52 deSPACs with a high
PIPE/IPO proceeds ratio on average received a relatively large discount for the purchase price,
and subsequently produced a high average one-year return of 32.4%. By contrast, the 53 deSPACs
with a low PIPE/IPO proceeds ratio produced average returns of -13.4%. The next categorization
is based on the redemption rate of the SPAC. The average one-year deSPAC return for PIPE
investors is 15.5% for deals with low redemption ratios, higher than the 2.9% for deals with high
redemption ratios. PIPE investors in these latter deals buy in at an average discount of only 6.7%,
mainly because the market price at the time of the deSPAC is typically close to $10 per share,
whereas the market price for low redemption deals is typically much higher, resulting in a high
average discount to the market price for PIPE investors of 33.1%.



4.    Sponsor Compensation Renegotiations and Their Returns

In this section, we discuss the compensation of SPAC sponsors and SPAC IPO underwriters from
a new angle, namely, the downward renegotiation of their compensation when the merger is being
negotiated and finalized. We analyze the 153 business combinations by SPAC IPOs from 2015 or
later that were completed by March 2021. We collect the relevant data from EDGAR filings and
SPAC Research. Internet Appendix Section A5 provides more details.

     In column 1 of Table 9, we report the percentage of these deSPACs for which sponsors or
underwriters take a haircut. Panel A reports that 53% of the time, the sponsor unconditionally
forfeits shares. In columns 2 and 3, we split the 153 completed mergers into groups with
below- and above-median redemption ratios. As a typical definitive agreement for a business

                                                 28
combination specifies a minimum amount of cash to be delivered to the merging company,
the SPAC shareholder redemption decisions can affect the probability that a merger will be
completed. Panel A shows that the average redemption ratio for the below-median redemption
group is 2%, while it is 73% for the above-median group, confirming the bimodal nature of
SPAC shareholder redemption decisions implied by the optimal redemption strategy. Panel
A also documents that for business combinations with high redemption ratios, sponsors
forfeit some of their common shares 66% of the time and warrants 39% of the time. But
even business combinations with low redemption ratios see sponsors surrender some of their
promote common shares in 39% of the deals and private placement warrants 21% of the
time. The modest correlation between redemption rates and sponsor forfeitures reflects several
factors. Forfeitures are sometimes negotiated before a merger announcement, and may reflect
success in attracting third-party PIPE money, which would discourage redemptions. In other
cases, forfeitures occur close to the merger date, and reflect the need of the sponsor to offer
inducements in order to discourage an even higher redemption rate.

                               — Place Table 9 About Here —

   Panel B of Table 9 reports the magnitudes of these forfeitures, and the same pattern
arises: while sponsors surrender 9% of their promote common shares on average for business
combinations with low redemption ratios, they forfeit 25% of their promote common shares
for high redemption deals. The percentages of forfeitures of private placement warrants are
12% and 26%, respectively, for low and high redemption groups.

   Underwriters commonly receive 2% of the 5.5% underwriting commission at the time of the
IPO for all shares sold, with the remaining 3.5% deferred until there is a business combination.
The renegotiations of the deferred underwriter commissions show the same pattern as sponsor
promotes: underwriters give up some portion of their commissions more often for higher
redemption deals, although these concessions are not as frequent as sponsor haircuts.

   We then focus on the extra payments that are offered to various investors to induce their
investments. New capital augmenting the cash in the trust account, including both forward
purchase agreement (FPA) and PIPE money, is an important component of many SPAC mergers.
Panel A of Table 9 reports that 80% of the business combinations during our sample period involve


                                               29
new capital. PIPE investments serve two important functions. The PIPE investment, when done by
an outside entity, such as a private equity firm or a mutual fund, serves to certify that the deal is
attractive, and thus discourages redemptions. In addition, if there are substantial redemptions, the
PIPE investment provides capital to meet the minimum cash requirement of a merger agreement.

    Investors often receive shares, warrants, or both as inducements. These inducements exist
in 31% of our sample, and often come from sponsor forfeitures. We measure the magnitude
of these inducements by dividing the number of common shares and/or warrants received
by various parties by the number of sponsor promote common shares and/or private
placement warrants. We measure these two types separately, and the average inducements
are 7% for common shares and 22% for warrants.

    Our interpretation is that sponsors often transfer some of the shares and warrants to PIPE
investors or existing shareholders (such as hedge funds that agree not to redeem) to keep
weak deals from collapsing, and underwriters forgo some of their deferred compensation
for the same reason. It is noteworthy that, sometimes, the inducements are larger than the
sponsor haircuts, which happens when merging company shareholders also pay part of the
inducements, in the process diluting their ownership (or equivalently, reducing the premoney
valuation of the operating company). Therefore, the source of an inducement depends on
the bargaining power dynamics during the merger process.

    Panel A of Table 9 reports an average redemption ratio of 37%, and panel B reports that
41% of cash delivered is new capital, with the other 59% being cash from the trust fund, net of
redemptions, deferred underwriter fees, and other fees.30 Using these averages, for a $200 million
SPAC IPO, with 20 million shares issued to the public and a 5 million share promote, there would
be $126 million + interest left in the trust fund before $7 million of deferred underwriter fees are
subtracted, netting $119 million + interest in cash (assuming that no other fees are taken out).
If this $119 million represents 59% of cash delivered, PIPE and FPA cash would be $82 million,
received for issuing 8.2 million (or slightly more shares if there were fees associated with raising
this capital) new shares. After redemptions, there would be 12.6 million public shares, 5 million
sponsor shares, and at least 8.2 million PIPE and FPA shares, for a total of at least 25.8 million
  30 Our sample period ends with mergers completed by March 2021. For the 277 mergers completed in April 2021 –

December 2022, the average redemption rate of 63% reported by SPAC Research has been dramatically higher.




                                                      30
"outside" shares, with $201 million of cash delivered before other fees. If we assume $8 million
in other fees and $2 million in trust interest, the cash delivered would be $201 - $8 + $2 = $195
million, with at least 25.8 million shares issued. The cash delivered per share would therefore
be $195 million/25.8 million = $7.56 or a little less, close to the mean of $7.46 per share ($8.13
median) reported in the last row of panel B of Table 9. The mean of $7.46 cash delivered per
share is affected by several factors. If there are no redemptions and a 20% promote, the cash
per share would be $8.00 before interest is added and deferred underwriter fees are subtracted.
Redemptions will lower this number, and PIPE investments at $10 per share will increase it.31

    Finally, we estimate sponsors’ returns taking into account the sponsor compensation
concessions documented in Table 9. Sponsors typically pay $25,000 in total for 20% of the shares
outstanding after the IPO and buy warrants at $1-$1.50 per warrant, investing about $7 million
for a $200 million SPAC IPO.32 The sponsor warrants typically have more attractive terms than
the public warrants (in particular, no upside cap due to forced exercise if the stock price hits $18).
On the other hand, as we report in Table 9, the sponsor may have to forfeit some of its shares, or
agree to a lengthy lockup with vesting provisions that allow early release only if the stock price
achieves certain targets. Sponsors may also make a PIPE investment at the time of a merger in
order to keep the deal from collapsing, substantially increasing the sponsor’s investment.

    Because sponsors generally cannot sell any of their shares or warrants acquired at the IPO
until at least 6 months after a deSPAC, there is no purpose to decompose the sponsor returns
into SPAC and deSPAC periods, as we do with public shareholders. It is in general not possible
to calculate realized returns because one can only approximate the price and time at which
some shares or warrants are sold. Nevertheless, using market prices at the end of the period
of their analysis, Klausner et al. (2022) report mean sponsor returns of 549% for their sample
of 47 deSPACs from January 2019 to June 2020.33
  31 The average $7.46 cash per share that is delivered in our sample is higher than the average of $4.10 cash per share

calculated by Klausner et al. (2022). Their lower number is due to a difference in sample periods, differences in the
treatment of warrants, and differences in the treatment of other fees and the proceeds from structured financing. These
issues are discussed in greater detail in Internet Appendix Section A3.1 and Section A5.1.
   32 This calculation is based on the initial trust fund of $10.00. It will be $11 million if the sponsor overfunds the trust

fund to $10.20, a practice that became common in 2022.
   33 J.P. Morgan, in its February 8, 2021 Eye on the Market newsletter, reports a mean return of 648% assuming

a 25% share forfeiture for 90 SPACs that were either liquidated or completed a deSPAC between January
2019 and the beginning of 2021. Although these high returns are not annualized returns, and were calculated
using a period when investor sentiment about SPACs was rising, they suggest why in 2021 the supply of




                                                             31
    Table 10 reports the average dollar value of sponsor gains (net of at-risk capital) for the 162
deals that either merged or liquidated by March 2021 for the SPACs that went public since 2015
(the same sample period as in Table 9, with nine liquidated deals included). We calculate these
gains both at the completion of a deSPAC transaction (merger or liquidation) and at the one-
year anniversary of the deSPAC transaction. The sponsor investment is the amount of at-risk
capital invested at the time of the IPO, and the payoff is the market value of stock and warrants
retained by the sponsor (net of forfeitures). The sponsor’s terminal stake in a liquidated deal
is set at zero. We calculate the payoffs for two extreme scenarios: 1) locked-up shares that are
subject to vesting requirements are valued the same as freely tradeable shares, and 2) locked-up
shares subject to vesting requirements are worthless. We then calculate both total and annualized
returns for the sponsor at the deSPAC anniversary.34 In both scenarios, we assume that sponsor
warrants are valued the same as public warrants.

                                     — Place Table 10 About Here —

    The top row of Table 10 shows that one year after the deSPAC, the total return for sponsors
is between 619% and 748%, depending on what one assumes about shares subject to vesting
restrictions. This total return percentage is equivalent to the net TVPI (Total Value-to-Paid In
capital) ratio used in private equity performance measurement. The average annualized return
is between 113% and 134%.35 The average net dollar gains for the sponsors are between $73
million and $82 million at closing and between $51 million and $62 million one year after the
deSPAC. The numbers are lower at the one-year anniversary of the deSPAC than at the time of
the deSPAC because the average return after the merger is negative.

    The extremely high returns, in both dollar terms and percentages, for sponsors suggest why
there was such a big increase in the supply of SPAC IPOs during 2020 and 2021. It is also worth
new SPAC IPOs surged to unprecedented levels. See https://privatebank.jpmorgan.com/content/dam/jpm-wm-
aem/global/pb/en/insights/eye-on-the-market/hydraulic-spacking.pdf, retrieved as of June 2022
  34 Part of these returns is arguably compensation for the expertise and efforts of the sponsors.
  35 For liquidated deals, regardless of the length of time until liquidation, we set the annualized sponsor return at

-100% per year. Table 10 ends with deSPACs in March 2021. In the next two quarters of 2021, there were another
122 deSPACs (and no liquidations). If these deSPACs were included, the EW average one-year dollar gain, assuming
unvested shares are counted at zero value, would fall from $51 million in Table 10 to $46 million, the average total
return from the IPO to the one-year deSPAC anniversary would fall from 619% to 510%, and the average annualized
return would fall from 113% to 110%. For these 122 deSPACs, few sponsor shares were forfeited, boosting returns,
which largely offset the lower profit per share from falling stock prices after the deSPAC. Internet Appendix Table A5
updates Table 10 to include deSPACs from the April to September 2021 period.



                                                         32
noting that the median annualized return, while lower than the mean annualized return, is still
82% even in our most conservative calculation. These high sponsor returns provide ammunition to
SPAC critics who argue that public market investor returns are low partly because the middlemen
(the underwriters and sponsors) are getting too big a portion of the pie.



5.    Out-of-Sample Return Forecasts

In our Internet Appendix Section A2, we document the recent evolution of dilution
percentages (i.e., fractions of a warrant per unit) and discuss other changes in contractual
terms that have occurred. Here, we explain why we expect that SPAC IPO investors,
sponsors, and underwriters will be earning lower returns and fees in the near future,
compared to what we document in our sample period.

     In 2020–2022, the SPAC market has gone through a boom and bust cycle. The number of
SPAC IPOs increased from 2 in 2010 to 248 in 2020, and then 613 in 2021. As SPAC market
prices rose in 2020 and the first 2 months of 2021, average returns for all categories of SPAC
investors rose. In the 18 months starting in March 2021, prices and SPAC IPO volume have
fallen substantially, with only 86 IPOs in 2022.

     While there is no widely agreed-on explanation for the SPAC IPO boom and bust of
2020–2022, some commentators attribute the SPAC boom to inflows from retail investors
associated with the COVID-19 crisis. The hypothesis is that during 2020–2021 many individuals
were at home and were not spending money on restaurant meals and in-person entertainment,
among other services.36 Instead, some of them were speculating in the stock market, either
directly or via vehicles, such as Cathie Woods’ ARK Innovation ETF (ticker ARKK), which
saw large investor inflows in late 2020 and early 2021.37 These inexperienced retail investors
in many cases had a preference for “cool” companies. As happened in the internet bubble
of 1999 to 2000, the valuations on some of these companies that had limited public floats
were bid up to levels that were difficult to justify.
  36 See,  for example, the comments of Ortenca Alija, the M&A editor of the Financial Times, at
https://www.ft.com/content/1fecedf0-bf22-4e61-875a-5c185f441d12. Retrieved in July 2022
  37 On October 5, 2021, the 46 stocks that ARKK held included positions of more than $780 million in

total in three deSPAC companies. See https://ark-funds.com/wp-content/uploads/funds-etf-pdf/ARKK-holdings-
1633462423-93580410428615263.pdf, where holdings in DraftKings, Skillz, and Gingko Bioworks are reported. Retrieved
in July 2022.


                                                        33
     As of January 2023, 530 SPACs either were looking for a merger partner or had announced,
but not completed, a merger. These SPACs, many of which went public in the first quarter of
2021, have the clock ticking, with an average time until the SPAC must liquidate of less than
12 months. Yet 2022 saw only 102 completed mergers, suggesting that 80% or so of these 530
SPACs will wind up liquidating. An 80% liquidation rate will dramatically lower both SPAC
IPO investor returns and sponsor returns. In 2022, 141 SPACs liquidated. The annualized return
of 23.9% earned by SPAC IPO investors in Table 3 and the annualized sponsor return of 113%
in Table 10 are based on a liquidation rate of 6%. What makes the situation even worse for
sponsors is that they have frequently been agreeing to onerous vesting restrictions on their
sponsor shares in deals negotiated in late 2021 and 2022.

     Underwriter compensation will also drop substantially. Underwriters will not be receiving
their 3.5% of deferred underwriting fees on SPAC IPOs that wind up liquidating. Even for
those that do not liquidate, underwriters may have to take haircuts to prevent the mergers from
collapsing. If 500 SPACs with average IPO proceeds of $300 million (including overallotment
options) liquidate, underwriters will miss out on over $5 billion of deferred fees.



6.    Conclusion

In this paper, we analyze the economic structure of SPACs and explain how the separation of
merger approval and redemption decisions is designed to deal with agency problems, as is the
option to redeem shares for cash and leave a SPAC with insufficient cash to complete a merger. We
focus on three key participants in the market: investors, operating companies, and sponsors. We
find that SPAC period investors and sponsors have been the winners, earning lucrative returns,
while deSPAC period investors have earned low average returns. Between the SPAC IPO and
the business combination or liquidation, we find lucrative risk-adjusted returns considering the
downside protected nature of the investment. Specifically, for 458 SPAC IPOs purchased at the
offer price from January 2010 to December 2020, the average annualized return during this SPAC
period has been 23.9%, with all 458 returns being positive. Investing in SPAC IPOs can be viewed
as investing in underpriced default-free convertible bonds with extra warrants.




                                               34
   On the other hand, investor returns in the deSPAC period on the merged companies are
mixed, but poor overall. For the 152 SPACs that completed a merger with an operating company
from January 2012 to December 2020, weighting each deal equally, common share investors
have lost money on average, while warrant investors have earned positive returns. The EW
average one-year return on the merged company shares has been -11.3%, underperforming the
market by 30.7%. However, because redemption rates are high on many of the worst performing
deSPACs, investor returns are not as bad as the EW numbers would suggest, with a public cash-
weighted average return of -3.0%. For the 142 of 152 merged companies that had outstanding
warrants, the EW average one-year post-merger return has been 72.2%, with these warrants
having benefited from the bull market of 2009–2021. The price-weighted average return has
been a more modest 13.5%, because many of the highest returns have been on out-of-the-money
warrants. We document that PIPE investors have earned returns substantially higher than public
market investors during the deSPAC period, primarily because PIPE investors have been able to
buy in at an average discount of 20.1% to the market price at the time of the deSPAC. Nevertheless,
PIPE investors have underperformed the market.

   From a private operating company’s point of view, we show that merging with a SPAC on
average is much more expensive than conducting a traditional IPO. The cost to the median
company of going public, as a percentage of post-merger or post-issue market cap, is 15.1% when
merging with a SPAC, vs. 3.2% when using a traditional IPO. We identify the economic roles
of SPAC sponsors and SPAC IPO investors and how these roles can create potential advantages
of merging with a SPAC for some firms, although some of the advantages are rather marginal
and have been recently challenged by the SEC.

   We document that sponsors sometimes take haircuts to ensure that the SPAC has enough
cash to consummate the merger. On average, sponsors give up 17% of their promote shares.
Furthermore, the IPO underwriters sometimes agree to forgo some of their deferred compensation
to ensure the completion of a merger. Importantly, these haircuts are state-contingent: sponsors
take larger haircuts and provide more inducements, and underwriters surrender commissions
more, for weaker deals. Even with these haircuts, sponsors have earned an EW average annualized
return of at least 113% from the IPO to one year after the merger.




                                                35
   In 2020 and 2021, the SPAC market boomed, before both SPAC IPO and deSPAC
transactions dropped dramatically in 2022. Market forces have resulted in SPACs adjusting
their IPO terms. As of January 2023, almost 400 SPACs are searching for merger targets,
with more than 150 other SPACs having announced, but not completed, mergers. Given the
low rate of merger completions in 2022, unless market conditions change dramatically, most
of the SPACs currently searching for targets will wind up liquidating. This dramatically
higher liquidation rate suggests that current SPAC period investors and sponsors will earn
much lower returns than those reported in this paper.




                                           36
References
Bai, J., A. Ma, and M. Zheng (2021): “Segmented going-public markets and the demand for
  SPACs,” SSRN Working Paper.

Blomkvist, M. and M. Vulanovic (2020): “SPAC IPO waves,” Economics Letters, 197, 109645.

Carter, R. and S. Manaster (1990): “Initial public offerings and underwriter reputation,” Journal
  of Finance, 45, 1045–1067.

Carter, R. B., F. H. Dark, and A. K. Singh (1998): “Underwriter reputation, initial returns, and
  the long-run performance of IPO stocks,” Journal of Finance, 53, 285–311.

Cazier, R. A., K. J. Merkley, and J. S. Treu (2020): “When are firms sued for qualitative
  disclosures? Implications of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements,” The Accounting
  Review, 95, 31–55.

Cembalast, M. (2021): “Hydraulic spacking: The SPAC capital raising boom, and why Biden’s
  early stage energy policies are more likely to increase oil imports rather than reduce
  emissions. Report, J. P. Morgan. https://assets.jpmprivatebank.com/content/dam/jpm-wm-
  aem/documents/en/investing/eotm/Hydraulic-Spacking.pdf.”

Chaplinsky, S., K. W. Hanley, and K. Moon (2017): “The JOBS Act and the costs of going public,”
  Journal of Accounting Research, 55, 795–836.

Coates, J. C. (2022): “SPAC law and myths,” SSRN Working Paper.

Cumming, D., L. H. Hass, and D. Schweizer (2014): “The fast track IPO – Success factors for
  taking firms public with SPACs,” Journal of Banking & Finance, 47, 198–213.

Dambra, M., O. Even-Tov, and K. George (2022): “Are SPAC revenue forecasts informative?”
  SSRN Working Paper.

Degeorge, F., J. Martin, and L. Phalippou (2016): “On secondary buyouts,” Journal of Financial
  Economics, 120, 124–145.

Dimitrova, L. (2017): “Perverse incentives of special purpose acquisition companies, the “poor
  man’s private equity funds”,” Journal of Accounting and Economics, 63, 99–120.

Fernando, C. S., V. A. Gatchev, and P. A. Spindt (2005): “Wanna dance? How firms and
  underwriters choose each other,” Journal of Finance, 60, 2437–2469.

Gryglewicz, S., B. Hartman-Glaser, and S. Mayer (2021): “PE for the Public: The Rise of
  SPACs,” SSRN Electronic Journal.

Howe, J. and S. O’Brien (2012): “SPAC performance, ownership, and corporate governance,”
  Advances in Financial Economics, 15, 1–14.

                                                 37
Hsu, D. H. (2004): “What do entrepreneurs pay for venture capital affiliation?” Journal of Finance,
  59, 1805–1844.

Jenkinson, T. and M. Sousa (2011): “Why SPAC investors should listen to the market,” Journal of
  Applied Finance, 21, 38–57.

Kiesel, F., N. Klingelhofer, D. Schiereck, and S. Vismara (2022): “SPAC merger announcement
  returns and subsequent performance,” European Financial Management, eufm.12366.

Kim, J., S. Park, K. Peterson, and R. Wilson (2022): “Not Ready for Prime Time: Financial
  Reporting Quality After SPAC Mergers,” Management Science, 68, 7054–7064.

Klausner, M. D., M. Ohlrogge, and E. Ruan (2022): “A sober look at SPACs,” Yale Journal on
  Regulation, 39, 228–303.

Lewellen, S. (2009): “SPACs as an asset class,” SSRN Working Paper.

Loughran, T. and J. R. Ritter (2004): “Why has IPO underpricing changed over time?” Financial
  Management, 33, 5–37.

Metrick, A. and A. Yasuda (2010): “The economics of private equity funds,” Review of Financial
  Studies, 23, 2303–2341.

Phalippou, L., C. Rauch, and M. Umber (2018): “Private equity portfolio company fees,” Journal
  of Financial Economics, 129, 559–585.

Renaissance Capital, I. (2020): “SPAC Returns Fall Short of Traditional IPO Returns on
  Average,” Renaissance Capital Blog Post Report.

Ritter,     J.     R.     (2023):      “IPO      statistics     for   2022   and   earlier   years,”
  https://site.warrington.ufl.edu/ritter/files/IPO-Statistics.pdf.

Rodrigues, U. and M. Stegemoller (2013): “Exit, voice, and reputation: The evolution of SPACs,”
  Delaware Journal of Corporate Law, 37, 849–927.

SEC (2021): “SPACs, IPOs and liability risk under the securities laws. Statement, April 8.
  https://www.sec.gov/news/public-statement/spacs-ipos-liability-risk-under-securities-laws.”

——— (2022): “SEC proposes rules to enhance disclosure and investor protection relating to
  special purpose acquisition companies, shell companies, and projections. Press Release, March
  30. https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2022-56.”

Stulz, R. M. (2020): “Public versus private equity,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, 36, 275–290.

Vulanovic, M. (2017): “SPACs: Post-merger survival,” Managerial Finance, 43:679–699.




                                                      38
      Table 1. The relative costs of going public and the speed of merging with a SPAC

Panel A reports the costs, excluding registration, legal, and auditing fees, of three different going
public methods: merging with a SPAC, a traditional IPO, or a direct listing. For both SPACs and
traditional IPOs, costs are defined to be the difference between the market value of “outside”
securities and the net cash received by the operating company and selling shareholders. For
SPACs, outside securities are shares, warrants, and rights held by public investors, PIPE investors,
and sponsors. For traditional IPOs, outside securities are the shares issued in the IPO. For direct
listings, costs are the fees paid to financial advisors. For traditional IPOs, our cost measure is
equivalent to the sum of underwriting commissions plus money left on the table. We use 150
SPAC mergers (after excluding 3 deals in which no cash was delivered due to high redemptions
and no PIPE investment), 677 traditional IPOs, and 7 direct listings between January 2015 and
March 2021. For the denominator, proceeds refer to the net cash delivered after underwriting
commissions and other costs. Market cap refers to the post-merger (or post-issuance) market
capitalization valued at the first closing market price. For SPAC mergers, cash delivered includes
the dollar value of the trust account and the proceeds from realized forward purchase agreement
(FPA) and PIPE investments. For market cap, the medians are $646 million for SPACs and $592
million for IPOs. For net proceeds, the medians are $255 million for SPACs and $108 million
for IPOs. For the costs, the medians are $92 million for SPACs and $19 million for IPOs. For
the traditional IPOs, we exclude IPOs raising more than $500 million, those with an offer price
below $5 per share, unit offers, ADRs, closed-end funds, natural resource limited partnerships,
REITs, bank and S&L IPOs, and small best efforts offers. Panel B reports average and median
calendar days between merger announcements and completion of business combinations based
on the year of merger announcements. The sample consists of 262 merger intent announcements
between January 2017 and March 2021. There was one merger announcement in March 2021
that did not complete the business combination as of June 23, 2022. For this announcement, we
include the days between the announcement and June 23, 2022.


                                  A. The relative costs of going public

                         SPAC (N=150)             Traditional IPO (N=677)       Direct listing (N=7)
                       Costs       Costs           Costs          Costs          Costs       Costs
                      Proceeds   Market cap       Proceeds      Market cap      Proceeds   Market cap
10th percentile        16.3%        4.4%            -4.1%         -0.8%            -         0.1%
25th percentile        29.4%        8.5%             6.9%          1.1%            -         0.1%
       Median          48.3%       15.1%           21.9%           3.2%            -         0.3%
75th percentile        89.2%       27.9%           49.9%           7.1%            -         1.1%



                  B. Days between merger announcements and business combinations

               Year         No. of announcements          Average days       Median days
               2017                   16                        137              140
               2018                   29                        164              147
               2019                   36                        174              143
               2020                   94                        127              120
             2021(Q1)                 87                        173              163
               Total                 262                        153              147

                                                   39
      Table 2. Characteristics of companies merging with SPACs and conducting an IPO

Panel A compares the observable characteristics of companies merging with SPACs and
companies conducting a traditional IPO (or a direct listing). The sample consists of 344 business
combinations and 1,391 traditional IPOs and direct listings between January 2013 and December
2021. We break down the sample into two periods, between 2013 and 2020 as the first period (145
business combinations and 1,080 traditional IPOs) and 2021 as the second period (199 business
combinations and 311 traditional IPOs). Sales are measured based on the last 12 months (LTM)
revenue prior to the listing date, adjusted to January 2021 purchasing power and reported in
millions. Age is calculated as the difference between the calendar year of listing and the founding
year, capped at 80 years. Profitability is a (0,1) dummy variable based on the LTM pro forma net
income prior to the listing date (or the previous fiscal year if the LTM net income is not available).
Tech and biotech are (0,1) dummy variables following Jay Ritter’s SIC-code-based classification
(see Ritter (2023)). Panel B reports results from probit models (1 = SPAC merger, 0 = IPO or direct
listing) defined in Equation (1) and given by
Merging with a SPACi = a ∗ ln(1 + sales)i + b ∗ ln(1 + age)i + c ∗ Pro f itablei + d ∗ Techi + e ∗ Biotechi + ei


.                                 A. Comparing observable characteristics

                              Firms merging with SPACs               Firms doing a traditional IPO
                            Average     25%      50%     75%         Average      25%     50%       75%
         2013–2020
            Sales ($M)          377      25      149     424          742          1       69       348
            Age (years)         19       6       11      25           16           6       10       17
            Profitable          31%                                   27%
         2021
            Sales ($M)          333      2       64      247          422          1      108       388
            Age (years)         13       6       10       15           15          6       11        18
            Profitable          14%                                   25%


                                             B. Probit regressions

                                                      Merging with a SPAC = 1
                                          (1)             (2)              (3)              (4)
                ln(1+sales)            0.035**         -0.112***       0.050***         -0.086***
                                       (0.017)          (0.022)         (0.018)          (0.023)
                ln(1+age)               -0.021           0.004           -0.029           -0.031
                                       (0.053)          (0.055)         (0.057)          (0.059)
                Profitability         -0.226**         -0.377***         -0.100         -0.268***
                                       (0.090)          (0.093)         (0.096)          (0.100)
                Tech                                   -0.465***                        -0.540***
                                                        (0.084)                          (0.091)
                Biotech                                -1.697***                        -1.710***
                                                        (0.129)                          (0.141)
                Year FE                   No              No              Yes              Yes
                No. observations        1,735           1,735           1,735            1,735
                Pseudo-R-sq.             .005            .120            .146             .243

                                                       40
                                Table 3. SPAC period returns


Panel A reports equally weighted annualized SPAC period returns for SPACs that went public
between January 2010 and December 2020 and were exchange-listed based on Equation (2). We
calculate annualized returns based on the optimal redemption strategy in which an investor
purchases a SPAC unit at the offer price and sells (or redeems, if redemption is available and
the redemption value is higher than the market price) each component of the SPAC unit at
the closing price of five trading days prior to the consummation of a business combination or
liquidation. To avoid any look-ahead bias in the return calculations, we include 117 ongoing
SPACs as of December 31, 2021, and use market prices at the end of December 2021 for their
returns. Panel B reports the average returns and duration (average months) based on the status
of these 458 SPACs. Average months refers to the months between the SPAC IPO date and a
business combination completion date, the liquidation date, or December 31, 2021 (for ongoing
SPACs). Panel C reports annualized SPAC period returns based on equal weighting, SPAC IPO
proceeds weighting, and the median for the 458 SPAC IPOs.

                                 A. Based on year of SPAC IPO

                   Year        Number of SPACs            Annualized returns
                   2010                 2                          1.4%
                   2011                 6                          3.4%
                   2012                 9                          3.9%
                   2013                10                         11.0%
                   2014                11                          5.4%
                   2015                20                          6.1%
                   2016                13                         19.6%
                   2017                34                          9.4%
                   2018                46                         19.3%
                   2019                59                         26.1%
                   2020               248                         30.7%
                  Total               458                         23.9%


                                     B. Based on outcomes

                 Outcome     Number of SPACs       Annualized returns     Average months
        Merger completed           321                  33.2%                  16.7
              Liquidated            20                   2.0%                  26.5
                 Ongoing           117                   2.3%                  14.7
                     Total         458                  23.9%                  16.6


                                 C. Different weighting methods

                                                        Annualized returns
                         Equally weighted mean                23.9%
                    IPO proceeds weighted mean                27.1%
                                        Median                 5.6%
                                              41
                         Table 4. deSPAC period common share returns

Panel A reports average equally weighted deSPAC period common share percentage returns
based on a buy-and-hold strategy (Equation (3)) in which an investor purchases common shares
of a merged company on the first day of trading as a new entity and holds them for 1 or 3
years. The year column represents the year of the merger. The sample consists of 152 business
combinations consummated between January 2010 and December 2020. Returns include dividend
yields and capital gains. When the full 1- or 3-year data are not available, we calculate the returns
based on available data. For example, if a merged company started to trade in March 2020 and
delisted in August 2020, we report the buy-and-hold returns from March 2020 to August 2020
for both one-year and three-year returns (not annualized). Returns end on December 31, 2021.
The CRSP return is the total return on the CRSP value-weighted market index, matched to each
investment period. Panel B reports average deSPAC period common share returns based on equal
weighting, post-merger market capitalization weighting, SPAC IPO proceeds weighting, public
cash weighting, and the median returns. Public cash is the actual cash delivered to the merging
companies from public SPAC shareholders, defined as Initial trust × (1 − redemption ratio).


                                           A. Common shares

                                      One-year returns                Three-year returns
          Year      Number        SPACs      CRSP      Diff.        SPACs    CRSP     Diff.
           2010         0            -          -        -             -        -      -
           2011         0            -          -        -             -        -      -
           2012         1         -53.2%     20.4%    -73.6%        -98.1%   37.2% -135.3%
           2013         5         -30.1%     17.9%    -48.0%        -41.1%   28.0% -69.1%
           2014         4         -51.6%      5.7%    -57.3%        -89.6%   26.7% -116.2%
           2015         9         -19.5%      0.7%    -20.2%         87.7%   33.1%   54.6%
           2016         9          -5.2%     19.0%    -24.2%        -35.1%   40.3% -75.3%
           2017        13         -11.0%     11.7%    -22.6%        -44.5%   30.3% -74.7%
           2018        23         -35.0%      8.8%    -43.8%         -8.1%   51.7% -59.8%
           2019        25           2.0%      8.8%     -6.8%         13.4%   56.2% -42.8%
           2020        63          -3.0%     32.6%    -35.6%        -19.1%   40.3% -59.4%
          Total       152         -11.3%     19.4%    -30.7%        -12.0%   42.6% -54.5%


                                   B. Different weighting methods

                                                      One-year returns       Three-year returns
                    Equally weighted mean                  -11.3%                   -12.0%
     Post-merger market cap-weighted mean                  -10.7%                   -25.2%
              IPO proceeds weighted mean                    -7.9%                    -9.5%
                 Public-cash-weighted mean                  -3.0%                    -6.3%
                                    Median                 -26.1%                   -39.4%




                                                 42
                            Table 5. deSPAC period warrant returns

Panel A reports equally weighted deSPAC period warrant returns based on a buy-and-hold
strategy (Equation (4)) in which an investor purchases a merged company warrants on the first
day of trading as a new entity and holds them for 1 or 3 years. The year column represents the year
of the merger. Panel A reports returns on warrants for 142 of 152 business combinations that have
warrants, consummated between January 2010 and December 2020. Returns end on December
31, 2021. Returns include capital gains only, as warrants do not pay dividends. The Units column
represents a deSPAC period investment strategy (mix of common shares and warrants) replicating
the initial specification of the SPAC IPO unit. When the full one-year or three-year data are not
available, we calculate the returns based on available data. For example, if a merged company
started to trade in March 2020 and delisted in August 2020, we report the buy-and-hold returns
from March 2020 to August 2020 as both one-year and three-year returns (not annualized). Panel B
reports deSPAC period warrant returns based on equal weighting, SPAC IPO proceeds weighting,
the warrant price on the first trading day as a deSPAC company weighting, and the median.
Common stock returns are from CRSP. Warrant returns are from Bloomberg and Refinitiv.

                                            A. Warrants

                                  One-year returns                     Three-year returns
     Year      Number       Common      Warrants     Units     Common        Warrants   Units
    2010           0            -            -          -              -         -          -
    2011           0            -            -          -              -         -          -
    2012           1         -53.2%       -7.1%      -49.8%        -98.1%     -98.6%    -98.2%
    2013           4         -28.7%       81.3%      -17.6%        -43.7%      35.0%    -34.8%
    2014           3         -46.5%      -38.3%      -47.1%        -94.6%     -91.1%    -94.7%
    2015           6         -45.6%      -40.9%      -43.9%        -10.3%      68.6%     -4.8%
    2016           8           1.4%        -1.9%       3.2%        -28.8%      -0.4%    -25.2%
    2017          11         -13.8%         3.3%     -13.0%        -37.5%     -20.7%    -36.7%
    2018          22         -38.8%      -17.0%      -37.5%          -5.7%     94.2%      -1.5%
    2019          25           2.0%       38.4%        3.3%          13.4%    122.6%     15.7%
    2020          62          -1.9%      153.1%        4.3%         -18.2%    132.0%    -10.6%
    Total         142        -11.6%       72.2%       -7.9%         -15.4%     93.5%    -10.3%


                                  B. Different weighting methods

                                               One-year returns       Three-year returns
                        Equally weighted             72.2%                    93.5%
                  IPO proceeds weighted              54.2%                    61.1%
            Warrant price at T=0 weighted            13.5%                    20.6%
                                  Median             -7.5%                   -19.0%




                                                43
      Table 6. Cross-sectional patterns on deSPAC common shares and traditional IPOs

Table 6 reports equally weighted one-year deSPAC period common share returns (panel A)
and traditional IPO returns (panel B) sorted by sales and profitability with sample sizes in
parentheses. The sample period for 152 SPAC mergers and 1,167 traditional IPOs is between
2012 and 2020 (same as Table 4). The IPO sample uses the same screens as in Table 1, with the
exception that IPOs with proceeds above $500 million are not excluded. Sales are measured based
on the last 12 months (LTM) revenue prior to the business combination consummation date or
the IPO date, reported in millions of January 2021 purchasing power. We use the previous fiscal
year if the LTM revenue is not available. Profitability is measured based on pro forma net income
for the LTM prior to the business combination consummation date or the IPO date. We use the
previous fiscal year if the LTM net income is not available. SPAC, CRSP, and abnormal returns
are the same as defined in Table 4. IPO returns are measured from the first closing market price.
Style adjustments use firms matched by market cap and book-to-market ratio with at least 5
years of CRSP listing and no follow-on equity issues in the prior 5 years.

                                   A. SPAC mergers (2012–2020)

                                               One-year returns from deSPAC
                                                SPAC          CRSP          Diff.
               Total (N = 152)                 -11.3%         19.4%        -30.7%
               Sales > $100 million (84)        -5.4%         16.2%        -21.6%
                 Profitable (42)                -1.1%         15.0%        -16.1%
                 Not profitable (42)            -9.7%         17.5%        -27.2%
               Sales < $100 million (68)       -18.6%         23.2%        -41.8%
                 Profitable (16)               -17.2%         18.9%        -36.1%
                 Not profitable (52)           -19.0%         24.5%        -43.5%


                                   B. Traditional IPOs (2012–2020)

                                                 One-year returns from first close
                                                  IPO          Style        Diff.
               Total (N = 1,167)                 14.0%        15.7%         -1.7%
               Sales > $100 million (549)        18.5%        15.9%          2.6%
                 Profitable (283)                25.3%        16.8%          8.5%
                 Not profitable (266)            11.4%        15.0%         -3.6%
               Sales < $100 million (618)        10.0%        15.9%         -5.9%
                 Profitable (52)                  2.1%        10.2%         -8.1%
                 Not profitable (566)            10.7%        15.9%         -5.2%




                                                 44
                       Table 7. Predicting deSPAC period common share returns

Table 7 examines whether observable characteristics can predict deSPAC period common share
returns. The sample consists of 152 business combinations completed between January 2012 and
December 2020, the same as Table 4. The table reports output from regressions having one- and
three-year market-adjusted deSPAC returns as the dependent variables. Returns and redemption
ratios are measured in decimal format (e.g., a return of -30% and a redemption ratio of 90% are
measured as -0.30 and 0.90). Market return is the total return on the CRSP value-weighted market
index, matched to each investment period. Sponsor Expertise is a dummy variable equals 1 if one
or more key members of a sponsor have work experience in an industry that a merging company
operates in, and equals 0 otherwise. Underwriter Rank measures SPAC IPO underwriters’
reputation following Loughran and Ritter (2004). Dilution per Unit measures the fraction of a
common share that derivative securities included in a unit can convert into. SPAC Period Return
uses annualized returns calculated in Table 3 corresponding to each merger. ln(Months) refers
to the natural logarithm of the number of months between the IPO date of a SPAC and its
business combination date. Standard errors are reported in parentheses. ln(1+Sales) is the natural
logarithm measured based on the last 12 months (LTM) revenue prior to the business combination
consummation date or the IPO date, reported in millions and purchasing power adjusted to the
January 2021 level. We use the previous fiscal year if the LTM revenue is not available. Profitability
is a (0,1) dummy variable based on the LTM pro forma net income prior to the listing date (or
the previous fiscal year if the LTM net income is not available). *p <.1; **p <.05; ***p <.01.



                                    One-year market-adjusted         Three-year market-adjusted
       Dependent variable           deSPAC common returns             deSPAC common returns
                                     (1)       (2)            (3)      (4)       (5)         (6)
       Sponsor expertise           0.255**                  0.139     0.270                 0.218
                                   (0.127)                 (0.141)   (0.198)              (0.201)
       Underwriter rank             0.018                   0.054    0.0437               0.087*
                                   (0.028)                 (0.033)   (0.053)              (0.049)
       Dilution per unit           -0.519*                  -0.311   -0.710                -0.550
                                   (0.267)                 (0.236)   (0.567)              (0.552)
       SPAC period return                      -0.138      -0.184*              -0.128   -0.205**
                                              (0.094)      (0.095)             (0.101)    (0.095)
       Redemption ratio                      -0.492**       -0.355              -0.240     -0.020
                                              (0.200)      (0.250)             (0.186)    (0.212)
       ln(Months)                            -0.537**     -0.541**             -0.473*   -0.475**
                                              (0.240)      (0.227)             (0.280)    (0.232)
       ln(1+Sales)                             -0.015      -0.023*              -0.002     -0.017
                                              (0.012)      (0.013)             (0.026)    (0.013)
       Profitability                           0.142        0.212               0.139      0.258
                                              (0.123)      (0.129)             (0.171)    (0.160)
       Year FE                       Yes       Yes          Yes        Yes       Yes       Yes
       No. observations             152       152          152        152       152       152
       Adj. R-squared               .037      .129         .162       .075      .041      .083




                                                     45
                                 Table 8. deSPAC period PIPE returns

 Table 8 reports the performance of PIPE investments in the deSPAC period with returns through
 March 31, 2022. Discounts from closing prices are the percentage discounts that PIPE investors
 receive compared to the market prices of common shares and/or warrants on the business
 combination closing date. For example, if PIPE investors pay $50 million for 5 million shares and
 receive 500,000 sponsor warrants, when the stock is trading for $11 per share and public warrants
 are trading for $2 per warrant, the discount would be $6 million divided by $56 million, or 10.7%.
 One-year returns for PIPEs are the returns of PIPE investments in stock and/or warrants from the
 total dollar investments (based on the discounted prices for PIPEs) to the market prices of the
 investments on the first anniversary date of the merger. For a comparison, we report one-year
 common shares returns and total returns on the CRSP value-weighted market index, matched to
 each investment period. We use a sample of 105 business combinations with PIPE investments
 in operating companies’ stocks − a subsample of the 153 business combinations completed as
 of March 2021 by the SPACs that went public since January 2015 (same sample as Table 9). 48
 mergers did not have PIPE investments in shares. We also split the sample in two different ways:
 the PIPE/IPO split is based on the ratio of the amount of total PIPE investments (including
 investments in common shares, convertible debt, and preferred shares) over the proceeds of
 the SPAC IPO; the Redemption split is based on the redemption ratio, that is, the number of
 SPAC IPO shares redeemed as a percentage of the total number of shares offered at the IPO.
 These sample splits are based on the median value of the respective ratio measured over the
 105 business combinations. Observations are equally weighted. Returns are calculated with stock
 and warrant prices from Bloomberg.



                                                 Discounts from             One-year returns
                         Number                   Closing prices   PIPEs    Common Shares      CRSP
                           105           Mean         20.1%          9.3%        -19.8%        19.2%
    Full sample       (of 153)          Median        19.7%        -18.6%        -43.2%        18.8%
                                         Mean         10.0%        -13.4%        -25.9%        16.7%
               Low          53          Median        13.4%        -23.5%        -36.7%        16.7%
 PIPE/IPO
                                         Mean         30.3%         32.4%        -13.6%        21.8%
               High         52          Median        29.9%        -12.0%        -45.4%        22.2%
                                         Mean         33.1%         15.5%        -22.8%        18.1%
               Low          53          Median        33.8%        -18.0%        -50.3%        18.8%
Redemption
                                         Mean          6.7%          2.9%        -16.8%        20.3%
               High         52
                                        Median         5.2%        -19.9%        -34.1%        18.5%




                                                 46
  Table 9. deSPAC negotiations: Forfeitures, inducements, new capital, and vesting provisions

 Table 9 examines some outcome characteristics of business combination negotiations. The sample
 consists of 153 business combinations completed as of March 2021 by the SPACs that went public
 since January 2015. Panel A reports the average redemptions and the frequencies of sponsors
 forfeiting their promotes, inclusions of vesting (earnout) provisions on sponsor promotes,
 underwriters surrendering their deferred commissions, inducements (transfers), and new capital
 involved in the merger. Inducements include shares or warrants transferred from the sponsor,
 which are also included as forfeitures, and often involve warrants that are newly issued by
 the company. Panel B reports means and medians (in parentheses) on the magnitudes of the
 forfeitures, sponsor shares subject to vesting restrictions, inducements, and new capital. We report
 the statistics for the whole sample and the low- and high-redemption subsamples based on the
 median redemption ratio of 22%.
                              A. Frequency of haircuts and inducements

                                                           Total             Low             High
                                                          Sample          Redemption      Redemption
                       Average redemption ratio             37%               2%              73%

Percentage of deSPAC deals in which
            (1) Sponsors forfeit common shares              53%              39%              66%
                   (2) Sponsors forfeit warrants            30%              21%              39%
     (3) Sponsor shares have vesting provisions             27%              26%              27%

  (4) Underwriters forfeit deferred commissions              7%               4%              9%

                        (5) Provide inducements             31%              24%              38%

               (6) Have new capital (e.g., PIPEs)           80%              86%              74%


                               B. Magnitude of haircuts and inducements

                                                            Total            Low             High
                                                           Sample         Redemption      Redemption
        (1) % of sponsor common shares forfeited           17% (3%)          9% (0%)        25% (23%)
               (2) % of sponsor warrants forfeited         19% (0%)         12% (0%)         26% (0%)
(3) % of sponsor shares having vesting provisions          11% (0%)         13% (0%)          9% (0%)

      (4) % of underwriter deferred fees forfeited          4% (0%)          2% (0%)          5% (0%)
                Conditional on nonzero forfeiture         53% (57%)        53% (59%)        53% (55%)

    (5) Inducement shares as % of sponsor shares             7% (0%)          4% (0%)        11% (0%)
  Inducement warrants as % of sponsor warrants              22% (0%)         16% (0%)        29% (0%)

      (6) New capital as % of total cash delivered        41% (41%)         37% (40%)       45% (42%)
          New capital as % of SPAC IPO proceeds           62% (40%)         84% (67%)       40% (23%)

                     (7) Cash delivered per share        $7.46 ($8.13)    $8.59 ($8.62)   $6.34 ($7.00)


                                                    47
                                                                Table 10. Sponsor returns

        Table 10 reports the mean and median of sponsors’ dollar gains at the closing of the deSPAC and one year after the deSPAC. The
        sponsor at-risk capital is the sponsor’s total cash contribution, which is used to purchase either warrants or units in the private
        placement, at the time of the SPAC IPO. We also report the total and annualized returns one year after the deSPAC, net of sponsor
        at-risk capital, with returns through March 31, 2022. Dollar gains are the market value of the sponsor’s stakes in a SPAC, including
        promote shares and warrants or units from private placements, minus the amount of at-risk sponsor capital. We calculate the Dollar
        gains at Closing with the stock and warrant prices from Bloomberg at the closing date of a deSPAC merger. We use the market price
        of the traded warrants issued to investors as the price for sponsor warrants. For liquidated deals, the market value of the sponsor’s
        stakes is set at zero. For the calculations of the Dollar gains at one year, we use the market prices at the anniversary of a deSPAC
        merger or zero for liquidated deals. Total one-year ret (%) is the percentage growth of the sponsor at-risk capital (Dollar gains divided
        by at-risk capital) at the first anniversary after the deSPAC merger or liquidation. The Annual one-year ret (%) is the annualized return
        from the SPAC IPO to the anniversary of a deSPAC merger or liquidation. For example, for a merger that occurred 1.5 years after the
        SPAC IPO, the Annual one-year ret (%) would be calculated 2.5 years after the SPAC IPO using the value of the sponsor’s stake at the
        anniversary relative to its at-risk capital investment. Both the total and annualized one-year returns for a liquidated deal are -100%. As
        indicated at the top of the panel, the first set of Dollar gains or One-year returns (%) are calculated with the shares (or warrants) subject
        to vesting requirements being counted at the full value (no shares will be forfeited), while the second set assigns a zero value to any
48
        shares or warrants that are subject to vesting requirements. The sample in this panel includes all completed business combinations or
        liquidations by the end of March 2021 by SPACs that went public in 2015 or later. We first report the summary statistics for the full
        sample (153 completed business combinations and 9 liquidations). We also report the summary statistics for the sample of the 153
        completed mergers split by the median of the redemption ratios.

                                              Sponsor             Vesting counted at full value                    Vesting counted at zero value
                                              At-risk       Dollar gain ($M)       One-year ret (%)          Dollar gain ($M)        One-year ret (%)
                           No.              Capital ($M)    Closing One year        Total Annual             Closing One year        Total Annual
                                  Mean         $7.5           $82        $62        748%      134%             $73        $51        619%      113%
        Full sample        162   Median        $6.8           $50        $25        394%        93%            $40        $19        328%       82%
                                  Mean           $8.7         $131       $100        1,107%     217%          $117         $83         915%      185%
     Redemption    Low     77    Median          $7.5          $99        $63          753%     140%           $74         $50         650%      136%
       Rate for
     Completed                    Mean           $6.3          $43        $32         483%       77%           $37         $26         403%       65%
                   High    76
      Mergers                    Median          $6.0          $26        $16         266%       54%           $21         $11         205%       42%
