         In Search of the Origins of Financial Fluctuations:
                 The Inelastic Markets Hypothesis
                               Xavier Gabaix and Ralph S.J. Koijen∗
                                               May 12, 2022


                                                  Abstract
          We develop a framework to theoretically and empirically analyze the fluctuations of the ag-
      gregate stock market. Households allocate capital to institutions, which are fairly constrained,
      for example operating with a mandate to maintain a fixed equity share or with moderate scope
      for variation in response to changing market conditions. As a result, the price elasticity of
      demand of the aggregate stock market is small, and flows in and out of the stock market have
      large impacts on prices.
          Using the recent method of granular instrumental variables, we find that investing $1 in
      the stock market increases the market’s aggregate value by about $5. We also develop a new
      measure of capital flows into the market, consistent with our theory. We relate it to prices,
      macroeconomic variables, and survey expectations of returns.
          We analyze how key parts of macro-finance change if markets are inelastic. We show how
      general equilibrium models and pricing kernels can be generalized to incorporate flows, which
      makes them amenable to use in more realistic macroeconomic models and to policy analysis.
          Our framework allows us to give a dynamic economic structure to old and recent datasets
      comprising holdings and flows in various segments of the market. The mystery of apparently
      random movements of the stock market, hard to link to fundamentals, is replaced by the
      more manageable problem of understanding the determinants of flows in inelastic markets. We
      delineate a research agenda that can explore a number of questions raised by this analysis,
      and might lead to a more concrete understanding of the origins of financial fluctuations across
      markets.




  ∗
     xgabaix@fas.harvard.edu, ralph.koijen@chicagobooth.edu. We thank Ehsan Azarmsa, Manav Chaudhary,
Aditya Chaudhry, Antonio Coppola, Zhiyu Fu, Dong Ryeol Lee, Hae-Kang Lee, Simon Oh, and Lingxuan Wu
for excellent research assistance. We thank Francesca Bastianello, Jean-Philippe Bouchaud, Michael Brandt, John
Campbell, Francesco Franzoni, Robin Greenwood, Arpit Gupta, Valentin Haddad, Lars Hansen, Sam Hanson, John
Heaton, Tim Johnson, Arvind Krishnamurthy, Spencer Kwon, John Leahy, Daniel Lewis, Hanno Lustig, Alan Mor-
eira, Knut Mork, Toby Moskowitz, Stefan Nagel, Jonathan Parker, Lasse Pedersen, Joel Peress, Monika Piazzesi,
Jean-Charles Rochet, Ivan Shaliastovich, Andrei Shleifer, Jeremy Stein, Johannes Stroebel, Larry Summers, Adi
Sunderam, Richard Thaler, Jean Tirole, Harald Uhlig, Dimitri Vayanos, Motohiro Yogo, and participants at various
seminars for comments. Gabaix thanks the Sloan Foundation for financial support. Koijen acknowledges financial
support from the Center for Research in Security Prices at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.


                                                       1
1     Introduction
One key open question is why the stock market exhibits so much volatility. This paper provides
a new model and new evidence suggesting that this is because of flows and demand shocks in
surprisingly inelastic markets. We make the case for this theoretically and empirically, and delineate
some of the numerous implications of that perspective.
    We start by asking a simple question: when an investor sells $1 worth of bonds and buys $1
worth of stocks, what happens to the valuation of the aggregate stock market? In the simplest
“eﬃcient markets” model, the price is the present value of future dividends, so the valuation of the
aggregate market should not change. However, we find both theoretically and empirically, using
an instrumental variables strategy, that the market’s aggregate value goes up by about $5 (our
estimates are between $3 and $8, and we will use $5 for simplicity in the theory and discussion).1
Hence, the stock market in this simple model is a very reactive economic machine, which turns an
additional $1 of investment into an increase of $5 in aggregate market valuations.
    Put another way, if investors create a flow of 1% as a fraction of the value of equities, the model
implies that the value of the equity market goes up by 5%. This is the mirror image of the low
aggregate price-elasticity of demand for stocks: if the price of the equity market portfolio goes up
by 5%, demand falls by only 1%, so that the price elasticity is 0.2. In contrast, most rational or
behavioral models would predict a very small impact, about 100 times smaller, and a price elasticity
about 100 times larger. This high sensitivity of prices to flows has large consequences: flows in the
market and demand shocks aﬀect prices and expected returns in a quantitatively important way.
We refer to this notion as the “inelastic markets hypothesis.”
    We lay out a simple model explaining market inelasticity. In its most basic version, a represen-
tative consumer can invest in two funds: a pure bond fund, and a mixed fund that invests in stocks
and bonds according to a given mandate — for instance, that 80% of the fund’s assets should be
invested in equities. Then, we trace out what happens if the consumer sells $1 of the pure bond
fund and invests this $1 in the mixed fund. The mixed fund must invest this inflow into stocks and
bonds: but that pushes up the prices of stocks, which again makes the mixed fund want to invest
more in stocks, which pushes prices up, and so on. In equilibrium, we find that the total value of
the equity market increases by $5.
    Then, the paper explores inelasticity in richer setups and finds that the ramifications of this
simple model are robust. For instance, the core economics survives, suitably modified, if the fund
is more actively contrarian, so that its policy is to buy more equities when the expected excess
return on equities is high. Moreover, the model aggregates well. If diﬀerent investors have diﬀerent
elasticities, the total market elasticity is the size-weighted elasticity of market participants. Impor-
tantly, the correct measure of size is the share of equity they hold. The model also clarifies how to
measure net flows into the aggregate stock market (even though for every buyer there is a seller),
which guides the empirical analysis. Moreover, it extends readily to an infinite horizon: in that
case, the price today is influenced by the cumulative inflows to date and the present value of future
expected flows — divided again by the market elasticity.
    The empirical core of this paper is to provide a quantification of the market’s aggregate elasticity.
To do that, we use a new instrumental variables approach, which was conceived for this paper and
worked out in a stand-alone paper (Gabaix and Koijen (2020)), the “granular instrumental variables”
   1
     The price impact is linear and symmetric: selling $2 worth of equities (buying $2 worth of bonds) decreases the
valuation of aggregate equities by $10.



                                                         2
(GIV) approach. The key idea is that we use the idiosyncratic demand shocks of large institutions
or sectors as a source of exogenous variation. We extract these idiosyncratic shocks from factor
models estimated on the changes in holdings of various institutions and sectors. We then take the
size-weighted sum of these idiosyncratic shocks (the GIV), and use it as a primitive instrument
to see how these demand shocks aﬀect aggregate prices and the demand of other investors. This
way, we can estimate both the aggregate sensitivity of equity prices to demand shocks (which is the
multiplier around 5 we mentioned above) and the demand elasticity of various institutions (around
0.2).
    Importantly, the data are consistent with a quite long-lasting price impact of flows. Indeed, in
the simplest version of the model, the price impact is perfectly long-lasting. This is not necessarily
because flows release information, but instead simply because the permanent shift in the demand
for stocks must create a permanent shift in their equilibrium price. We perform a large number of
robustness checks, for example using diﬀerent data sets (the Flow of Funds as well as 13F filings).
The findings are consistent across specifications, in the sense that the price impact multiplier remains
around 5. We also construct a measure of capital flows into the market. We find that this measure
is strongly correlated with realized returns and survey expectations of returns, but it is only weakly
correlated with macroeconomic growth.

     Here are three a priori reasons to entertain that markets would be inelastic First of
all, if one wants to buy $1 worth of equities, many funds actually cannot supply that: for instance, a
fund that invests entirely in equities cannot exchange them for bonds. Many institutions have tight
mandates, something that we confirm empirically. Relatedly, it is hard to find investors who could
act as macro arbitrageurs. For instance, hedge funds are relatively small (they hold less than 5% of
the equity market), and they tend to reduce their equity allocations in bad times (due to outflows
and binding risk constraints; see Ben-David et al. (2012)). Second, the transfer of equity risk across
investor sectors is small (about 0.6% of the aggregate value of the equity market per quarter for
the average pair of investor sectors). This implies that the demand elasticity of most investors is
quite small or that investors experience nearly identical demand shocks (as if they were to disagree,
we would see large flows in elastic markets), something which may be implausible. Third, a large
literature estimates demand elasticities for individual stocks using a variety of methodologies, where
the latest estimates of this “micro” demand elasticity are approximately 1 (we provide complete
references below). As the macro elasticity should arguably be lower than the micro elasticity
(considering that, for example, Ford and General Motors are closer substitutes than the stock
market index and a bond), this suggests a low macro elasticity, perhaps less than 1. Consistent
with this reasoning, a new literature explores elasticities for “factors” in the US, such as size and
value, and finds elasticities of around 0.2. Hence, in light of this existing evidence, our low macro
elasticity may be less surprising.

Suppose that the “inelastic markets hypothesis” is true; why do we care? First, investor-
specific flows and demand shocks are quantitatively impactful. As a result, one can replace the “dark
matter” of asset pricing (whereby price movements are explained by hard-to-measure latent forces)
with tangible flows and the demand shocks of diﬀerent investors. This suggests a research program
in which determinants of asset prices can be traced back to measurable demand shocks and flows
of concrete investors. By studying the actions of these investors, we can infer their demand curves,
and theorize about their determinants.


                                                   3
    If equity markets are indeed inelastic, several questions that are irrelevant or uninteresting in
traditional models become interesting. For instance, if the government buys stocks, stock prices go
up — again by this factor of 5. This may be useful as a policy tool — a “quantitative easing” policy
for stocks rather than long-term bonds. It may also be used to analyze previous policy experiments,
in Hong Kong, Japan, and China, and give a quantitative framework to complement the previous
qualitative discussions of policy proposals of this kind (Tobin (1998); Farmer (2010); Brunnermeier
et al. (2020)).
    Also, firms as financiers materially impact the market in our calibration. Prior research showed
that firms react to price signals, such as in their decisions to issue dividends or raise funds in stocks
versus bonds (Baker and Wurgler (2004); Ma (2019)): now we can quantify how firms’ actions
impact the market. For instance, stock buybacks can have a large aggregate eﬀect. Suppose that
the corporate sector buys back $1 worth of equities rather than paying $1 worth of dividends. In the
traditional Modigliani-Miller world, the market value of equities does not change at all. In contrast,
in an inelastic world, the value of equities goes up, by a tentative estimate of around $2.2 As a
naive non-economist might think, “if firms buy shares, that drives up the price of shares.” A rational
financial economist might say that this is illiterate. But the naive thinking is actually qualitatively
correct in inelastic markets. Hence, potentially, as share buybacks account for a large portion of
flows (they have been about as large as dividend payments in the recent decade), corporate actions
account for a sizable share of equity purchases, and therefore of the volatility and increase in the
value of the stock market. This “corporate finance of inelastic markets” is an interesting avenue of
research.
    If markets are inelastic, then macro-finance should reflect that. Accordingly, we construct a
general equilibrium model in the spirit of Lucas (1978) where there is a central role for flows and
inelasticity. It clarifies the role of demand shocks and flows, the determination of the interest rate,
and shows how to augment traditional general equilibrium models with flows in inelastic markets.
That makes those models more realistic, and better suited for policy. This model may serve as a
prototype for models enriched by inelasticity. Indeed, it calibrates well, and replicates quantitatively
the salient features of the stock market, such as the volatility and size of the equity premium, the
slow mean-reversion of the price-dividend ratio, and the ability to predict stock return with the
price-dividend ratio at diﬀerent horizons. We also show how the model can be used to match the
strong correlation between prices and subjective beliefs about long-term growth (Bordalo et al.
(2020)), even if fluctuations in beliefs have only a modest impact on actions (Giglio et al. (2021a)),
as the resulting flows are amplified in inelastic markets. We conclude that our general equilibrium
model with “inelastic markets” is competitive with other widely-used general equilibrium models
that match equity market moments, be it via habit formation (Campbell and Cochrane (1999)), long
run risks (Bansal and Yaron (2004)), or variable rare disasters (Gabaix (2012), Wachter (2013)).
In addition to proposing a new amplification mechanism, its main advantage, as we see it, is that
is relies on an observable force, flows in and out of equities.
    We also show how to connect flows to the “stochastic discount factor” (SDF) approach: the flows
are primitive, and the SDF is a book-keeping device to record their influence on prices. This model
could be helpful to get correct risk prices in macroeconomic models, including their variation due
to flows.
    One limitation of our study is that we postpone to future research the detailed investigation
of what determines flows in the first place: instead, we provide descriptive statistics showing they
  2
      The estimate is tentative, in part as it relies on estimates of the rationality of the consumer after the buybacks.


                                                            4
correlate sensibly with other variables, such as prices and measured beliefs. The reason is chiefly
that this would be a stand-alone paper. But we think it is quite doable, and indeed we are working
on this. Rather than studying “shocks to noise traders” abstractly, we replace them with investor-
level flows and demand shocks that may be easier to understand. Indeed, episode by episode, one
can ask questions such as “why did firms lower their buybacks?” (answer: because they had lower
earnings), “why did pension funds buy?” (answer: because their mandate forces them to buy stocks
after stocks fall), or “why did hedge funds sell?” (answer: their investors sold, given their low past
returns).

Literature review Our paper is about the macro elasticity, in contrast to the micro elasticity
estimated in the literature, including Shleifer (1986), Harris and Gurel (1986a), Wurgler and Zhu-
ravskaya (2002), and Duﬃe (2010).3 We summarize the evidence on existing elasticity estimates in
more detail in Section 2.4.
    We build on the insights of De Long et al. (1990), who write an equilibrium model in which
noisy beliefs create demand shocks that move the market and the equity premium. They discuss a
rich set of qualitative ideas, some of which we can formally analyze and quantify, such as the failure
of the Modigliani-Miller theorem and the notion that if most market participants passively hold
the market portfolio, prices react sharply to flows. De Long et al. (1990) dealt with these issues
qualitatively, but, influenced by it, a literature has studied the impact of mutual fund flows in the
market, for example Warther (1995).4 In addition, an active literature studies the impact of mutual
fund and ETF flows on the cross-section of equity prices, for instance Frazzini and Lamont (2008),
Lou (2012), Ben-David et al. (2018), Dou et al. (2020), and Dong et al. (2021). One innovation
of our paper is to provide a systematic quantitative framework to think about this, to include all
sectors (not just mutual funds), and to think about causal inference at the level of the aggregate
stock market via GIV. Deuskar and Johnson (2011a) use high-frequency order flow data for S&P 500
futures to show that about half of the price variation can be attributed to flows shocks. Moreover,
they find these shocks to be permanent over the horizons that they consider.5
    A few papers have modeled how flows might be important, examining general flows in currencies
(Gabaix and Maggiori (2015), Greenwood et al. (2019), Gourinchas et al. (2020)), slow rebalancing
mechanisms in currencies (Bacchetta and Van Wincoop (2010)) and equities (Chien et al. (2012),
who emphasize flows coming from the supply of shares by firms), or switching between types of
stocks (Barberis and Shleifer (2003), Vayanos and Woolley (2013b)). However, we believe we are
the first to conceptually and quantitatively explore the elasticity of the aggregate stock market using
a simple economic model to link data on total holdings and flows to fluctuations in the aggregate
stock market. We also provide the first instrumental variables estimate of the elasticity of the US
equity market. Camanho et al. (2019) provide a partial-equilibrium model of exchange rates with
flows, quantified with the GIV methodology developed for the present paper and spelled out in
   3
     A growing literature studies elasticities in global financial markets, see for instance Dierker et al. (2016) and
Charoenwong et al. (2020).
   4
     See also Edelen and Warner (2001), Goetzmann and Massa (2003), and Ben-Rephael et al. (2012).
   5
     Deuskar and Johnson (2011a) study a system of equations in which flows may impact returns and returns may
impact flows. To identify price impact, they rely on identification via heteroskedasticity as in Rigobon (2003). As
only the demand shock in futures markets is used, and not in cash markets, we cannot directly translate the estimates
into multipliers. However, under the assumption that flows in cash markets are highly correlated with flows in futures
markets, their results do show that flows explain a large fraction of market fluctuations, which is consistent with the
inelastic markets hypothesis.



                                                          5
Gabaix and Koijen (2020).
    A related literature finds convincing evidence that supply and demand changes do aﬀect prices
and premia in partially segmented markets, for bonds (for example as in Greenwood and Vayanos
(2014), Greenwood and Hanson (2013), and Vayanos and Vila (2020)), mortgage-backed securities
(Gabaix et al. (2007)), or options (Garleanu et al. (2009)), with models which typically feature
CARA investors and partial equilibrium. Here our focus is on stocks, while our model is quite
diﬀerent from the models in that literature (in particular, it avoids CARA restrictions on investor
preferences) and is also developed in general equilibrium.
    Our work also relates back to the work on flows and asset demand systems by Brainard and
Tobin (1968) and Friedman (1977), among others. This literature faced two important challenges
that we address; first, data on asset holdings were not as readily available as they are now and,
second, there were no obvious methods to identify the slopes of asset demand curves. We share
with Koijen and Yogo (2019) and Koijen et al. (2019) our reliance on holdings data by institutions,
and the desire to estimate a demand function. We are mostly interested in the equilibrium in the
aggregate stock market, as opposed to the cross-sectional focus of Koijen and Yogo (2019), and
we emphasize the role of flows, and the dynamics of prices and capital flows over time. Using a
similar modeling strategy as in Koijen and Yogo (2019), Koijen and Yogo (2020) estimate a global
demand system across global equity and bond markets to understand exchange rates, bond prices,
and equity prices across countries. We also relate to the literature on slow-moving capital (Mitchell
et al. (2007); Duﬃe (2010); Duﬃe and Strulovici (2012); Moreira (2019); Li (2018)), providing a
new model for price impact with long-lasting eﬀects, and an identified estimation. Finally, part of
our contribution is a new model of intermediaries (He and Krishnamurthy (2013)), with a central
role for flows, trading mandates, and inelasticity.
    Much more distant to our paper is the theoretical microstructure literature (Kyle (1985)). There,
inflows cause price changes, but crucially those inflows do not change the equity premium on average
(as the mechanism is rational Bayesian updating, rather than limited risk-bearing capacity, unlike
Kondor and Vayanos (2019)), and hence do not create excess volatility. In contrast, in our paper,
inflows do change the equity premium, creating excessively volatile prices.

Outline Section 2 gives some simple suggestive facts on equity shares and potential macro ar-
bitrageurs such as broker dealers and hedge funds. It also summarizes the existing literature on
elasticity estimates. Section 3 develops our basic model of the stock market: it lays out the basic
notions, and defines clearly elasticity and its link with price impact. It also gives the theoretical
framework that we take to the data. Section 4 contains the empirical analysis, including with an
instrumental variable estimation of the aggregate market elasticity. Section 5 provides a general
equilibrium model that helps to think about how everything fits together: it specializes the ba-
sic model of Section 3 as it endogenizes the interest rate and links cash flows to production and
consumption. Section 6 discusses how the eﬀectiveness of government policy and corporate finance
change with inelastic markets. Section 7 provides a conclusion and thoughts about the research
directions suggested by the present approach. The appendix contains the basic proofs, and details.
The online appendix contains a number of robustness checks and extensions.

Notations We use E for equities, E for expectations, and E for equal-weighted averages. We
call the average dividend-price ratio of the equity market. We generally use lowercase notations
for deviations from a baseline. For a vector X = (Xi )i=1...N and a series of relative shares Si with


                                                 6
PN                             P                 PN
        = 1, we let XE := N1 N
    i=1 Si                        i=1 Xi , XS :=      i=1 Si Xi , X := XS     XE so that XE is the
equal-weighted average of the vector’s elements, XS is the size-weighted average, andPX is their
                                                                                            !X
diﬀerence. We define the mean of Xi (with i = 1 . . . N ) with weights !i as: E! [Xi ] := Pi !i i i .
                                                                                                      i




2       Data and Suggestive Facts on Equity Shares and Flows
In this section we document several stylized facts and discuss how they are related to our model and
to traditional, elastic asset pricing models. These facts are meant to be no more than suggestive:
the core empirical results are in Section 4, in which we try to carefully quantify the key parameters
of our model.
    After discussing the data construction in Section 2.1, we document that institutions often have
quite stable equity shares in Section 2.2, and relatedly we seek to identify investors with elastic
demand for the aggregate stock market in Section 2.3. That is, we ask: who are the deep-pocketed
arbitrageurs that could make the aggregate stock market elastic? This question relates to the work
by Brunnermeier and Nagel (2004), who show that hedge funds did not provide elasticity to the
market during the technology bubble in the late nineties.

2.1      Data sources and construction
We summarize the data sources that we use and define some of the key variables. We leave a
detailed description for Appendix C.
    We use sector-level data from the Flow of Funds (FoF) on holdings of equities and bonds as well
as flows into both asset classes. Flows are diﬀerences in levels adjusted for mechanical valuation
eﬀects. We compute total bond holdings as the sum of Treasury and corporate bond holdings, and
analogously for flows. As the FoF reports combined values of holdings and flows of foreign and US
assets (except for Treasuries), we adjust these series (Appendix C.1.3). We assume that the flows
transact at end-of-period prices. The sample is quarterly from 1993 to 2018 and we use the June
2019 vintage of the FoF data.6
    We use monthly disaggregated data on assets under management, the share invested in US
equities, and flows from Morningstar for mutual funds and ETFs that are domiciled in the US and
that have the US dollar as the base currency. We select the funds in Morningstar’s US category
groups “US Equity,” “Sector Equity,” “Allocation,” and “International Equity.” 7 We use the sample
from 1993 to 2019 for mutual funds and from 2002 to 2019 for ETFs.8
    For state and local pension funds, we use data from the Center for Retirement Research at
Boston College. The sample is from 2002 to 2019. We use data on the share invested in equities
and fixed income as well as target holdings in equities and fixed income (including cash). State and
local pension funds report once a year (although in diﬀerent quarters). We use a fund’s actual and
target allocation to equity and fixed income and scale it so that the sum of the shares equals 100%
for each fund.
    We use disaggregated data on equity holdings by institutional investors via form 13F filings. We
source the 13F filings from FactSet and the construction is as in Koijen et al. (2019). The sample
    6
     Data of diﬀerent vintages can be downloaded from this website.
    7
     We remove fund of funds in our analysis to avoid double counting.
   8
     We omit a small number of fund-quarters in which the US equity share exceeds 300% or is lower than -300%, as
these may be data errors.


                                                       7
Figure 1: Equity shares. The left panel of the figure plots the equity share in 1993 (orange bars)
and in 2018 (green bars) by institutional sector using Flow of Funds data. The right panel displays
the value-weighted average equity share of mutual funds, ETFs, and state and local pension plans.
The equity share of the diﬀerent institutions are averaged using the relative equity size of each
investor. The construction of the data is discussed in Appendix C.

                                                                                                                                        1
 .5                                                                                        2018                        1993


 .4                                                                                                                                     .8



                                                                                                                                  Equity share
 .3



                                                                                                                                   .4      .6
 .2

 .1
                                                                                                                                        .2
 0
          s
          ld        ds    or        Fs        s
                                             nd       nd
                                                        s      es         rs     ds        ts     ers     nk s
                                                                                                                   nd
                                                                                                                       s
      ho       un         ct   ET                            ni        re       un        ov    al
               lf        se              fu        fu      pa        su     tf        lg       de       Ba        fu
     se    ua        n                  on        n     m         in       en        ca                        d                        0
 ou                 ig              si        io      co        ty               lo        er                en
 H        ut    re                 en        ns              al        em                 ok              d−
      M        Fo              lp        pe        e
                                                  nc        su       tir    an
                                                                                d     Br               se                                  1993q1   1997q3     2002q1      2006q3   2011q1     2015q3         2020q1
                              ca    at  e     ra        ca
                                                                vt
                                                                  re
                                                                       at  e                        Clo                                                                     Date
                          lo       iv        su        &     go        St
                         &         Pr    in        ty
                     e
                     at             Li
                                        fe
                                              op
                                                  er
                                                        Fe
                                                           d                                                                                           Mutual funds                  ETFs
                    St                       Pr                                                                                                        Pension funds (actual)        Pension funds (target)




is from 1999 to 2019.
    We use quarterly data on real GDP growth from the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank FRED
database, series GDPC1. Data on returns with and without dividends are from the Center for
Research in Security Prices. We use the monthly, value-weighted return with and without dividends
to compute the monthly dividend payment.
    Lastly, we use survey expectations of returns from Gallup, as also used by Greenwood and
Shleifer (2014), who use the fraction of investors who are bullish (optimistic or very optimistic)
minus the fraction of investors who are bearish. We update their data, which starts in 1996.Q4, to
2018.Q4, and the resulting series has some gaps.

2.2            Institutions often have a quite stable equity share
As a point of reference, we summarize in Figure 1 the evolution of ownership of the US equity
market from 1993 (orange bars) to 2018 (green bars) based on FoF data. During the last 25 years,
equity ownership moved from households’ direct holdings to institutions. The figure understates
this trend as the “household sector” in the FoF includes various institutional investors such as hedge
funds and non-profits (e.g., endowments). Broker dealers, who received much attention in the recent
asset pricing literature, hold only a small fraction of the US equity market. This limits their ability
to provide elasticity to the market.
    For some of these sectors, such as mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and pension funds, we
have investor-level data on equities and fixed income holdings. In the right panel of Figure 1, we
plot the equity share. We aggregate diﬀerent investors in a given sector using the relative sizes of
their equity portfolios as opposed to assets under management, consistently with our theory (see
the discussion around 15). To appreciate the importance of this diﬀerence, consider an economy
with only pure equity and pure bond funds that have the same amount of assets under management.
The equity-weighted equity share equals 100% while the asset-weighted equity share equals only

                                                                                                                              8
50%. As the relative size of equity and bond assets move, so will the asset-weighted equity share.
Yet, the equity-weighted share will be a constant 100%. It is the equity-weighted equity share that
is relevant per our theory.
    The plot shows that equity shares are quite stable over time for broad classes of investors. This
is consistent with many institutions having a rather rigid mandate to maintain a stable equity
share. In the model that we introduce in Section 3, this mandate rigidity will be captured by a low
elasticity () of funds’ asset location to the expected return on equities. In recent work, Cole et
al. (2021) show that a large fraction of households9 also have a high average equity share at 79.2%
with little variation over time (the equity-weighted equity share only drops to 76.4% at the end of
2008). This stability is in part explained by the introduction of target date funds.

2.3     In search of macro arbitrageurs
Figure 1 shows that the equity shares of large groups of investors, such as mutual funds, ETFs, and
pension funds, are stable over time. As the foreign sector consists of similar institutions, this fact
naturally raises the question of who carries out arbitrage across asset classes or, equivalently, which
group of investors aggressively times the market. In the survey that we discuss in the introduction,
two investor sectors are frequently mentioned: hedge funds and broker dealers.10
    As Figure 1 shows, broker dealers are very small and hold less than 0.5% of the equity market
directly. So while perhaps important for the micro elasticity, broker dealers are not well-positioned
to absorb large equity flows over longer periods of time. The hedge fund sector is also quite small,
with holdings below 4% of the equity market in long positions going into the financial crisis. Ben-
David et al. (2012) document two important facts. First, hedge funds sold a large fraction of their
equity holdings during the financial crisis, averaging to 3.06% per quarter from 2007.Q3 to 2009.Q1.
Given their small size, this corresponds to selling on average 0.1% of the market each quarter (or
0.7% in total). Redemptions and leverage constraints explain about 80% of this decline in equity
holdings. Second, flows across sectors are small. Ben-David et al. (2012) decompose the market
into hedge funds, mutual funds, short sellers, other institutional investors (e.g., pension funds and
insurance companies), and non-institutional investors (e.g., households). Measured as a fraction of
the market, these investor sectors sell or buy on average just 0.25% of the market per quarter. We
extend these calculations using data from the FoF for the technology crash in 2000-2002 and the
2008 global financial crisis in Appendix D.3. As a fraction of the market, flows between groups
average to at most 0.5% of the market.
    In summary, many funds appear to have fairly tight mandates, hedge funds do not appear to
arbitrage the aggregate stock market and amplify demand shocks during severe downturns, and
flows between sectors are small.
    The small flows across sectors has implications for the properties of demand shocks, which
are shocks to investors’ beliefs or risk appetite, given the elasticity of demand. The signature of
elastic demand is that disagreement among investors is associated with large flows and quantity
movements. As flows are small, theories featuring elastic demand imply that investors should agree
almost perfectly in their beliefs about expected growth rates and their riskiness, and also have similar
risk aversion. In inelastic markets, in contrast, there can still be large common shocks to beliefs, for
   9
     Their sample appears to be representative of the middle 80% of the retirement wealth distribution of retirement
investors between age 25 and 65.
  10
     While a large literature explores the micro elasticity of hedge funds, we are interested in their market elasticity.
In the FoF, hedge funds are part of the household sector and we cannot study them separately using these data.


                                                           9
Figure 2: Elasticity estimates in the existing literature. The figure reports elasticity estimates in
the existing literature for individual stocks, factors such as size and value, and the aggregate stock
marke. The elasticity is defined as the percent change in demand per percent change in prices.
We discuss in footnote 12 and Appendix G.5 how to interpret the trade-level estimates of Frazzini
et al. (2018); here, we simply report the “prima facie” estimates. In the bottom of the figure, we
summarize the methodology used to identify the elasticities. For papers with a *, we compute the
elasticity based on the tables reported in the paper ourselves.




instance as during the 2008 financial crisis, but there is much more scope for disagreement.11 This
second interpretation of financial markets may be more consistent with the data on beliefs, which
points to significant fluctuations in disagreement over time (Giglio et al. (2021a)).

2.4     The micro and macro elasticity of markets: Summary of existing
        evidence
This paper is about the macro elasticity of the market (that is, how the aggregate stock market’s
valuation increases if one buys $1 worth of stock by selling $1 worth of bonds). This is in contrast
with the very large literature that studies the micro elasticity of the market (which describes how
much the relative price of two stocks changes if one buys $1 of one, and sells $1 of the other). A
more recent literature studies multipliers at diﬀerent levels of aggregation.
    We summarize this literature in Figure 2 and Table 1. In the figure, we report recent demand
elasticity estimates, which are defined as the percent change in aggregate demand per percent
  11
      To make this more concrete, using the notation of the next section, consider the simple decomposition of demand
   qit = ⇣ pt + fit⌫ . If markets are as elastic as in standard models, say ⇣ = 10, then fit⌫ = qit + 10 pt . As the
volatility of qit is modest, demand shocks are largely dominated by the second term, 10 pt , and almost perfectly
correlated. This leaves little room for disagreement among investors, even though this is widely document in beliefs
data, as the signature prediction of a model with elastic markets and belief disagreement is the presence of large
flows coupled with small price changes. When markets are inelastic, say ⇣ = 0.2, then fit⌫ = qit + 0.2 pt . Demand
shocks still contain a large common component, but the correlation between demand shocks is much lower and there
is more scope for disagreement.


                                                         10
Table 1: Multiplier estimates in the existing literature. The table reports multiplier estimates in
the existing literature for individual stocks (Panel A), factors such as size and value (Panel B), and
the aggregate stock market (Panel C). The multiplier is defined as the percent change in prices per
percent change in shares outstanding purchased or sold by an investor. † We discuss in footnote 12
and Appendix G.5 how to interpret the trade-level estimates of Frazzini et al. (2018) and Bouchaud
et al. (2018); here, we simply report the “prima facie” estimates.


                                          Panel A: Micro multiplier
                                                      Methodology                                      Multiplier
       Chang, Hong and Liskovich (2014)               Index inclusion                                  0.7 to 2.5
       Pavlova and Sikorskaya (2020)                  Index inclusion                                  0.3 to 0.5
       Schmickler (2020)                              Dividend payouts                                    0.8
       Lou (2012)                                     Mutual fund flows                                   1.2
       Frazzini et al. (2018), Bouchaud et al. (2018) Trade-level permanent price impact                  15†

                                      Panel B: Factor-level multiplier
       Ben-David, Li, Rossi and Song (2020a)         Morningstar ratings change                            5.3
       Peng and Wang (2021)                          Fund flows                                            4.8
       Li (2021)                                     Fund flows+SVAR                                       5.7

                                        Panel C: Macro multiplier
       Hartzmark and Solomon (2022)                Dividend payouts, US                                  1.5-2.3
       Da, Larrain, Sialm and Tessada (2018)       Pension fund rebalancing, Chile                         2.2
       Li, Pearson and Zhang (2020b)               IPO restrictions, China                               2.6-6.5


change in prices. In the bottom of the figure, we summarize the methodology used to identify the
elasticities.
    In Panel A of Table 1, we provide a summary of recent estimates of the micro multiplier, which is
the percent change in prices when an investors purchases a certain fraction of the shares outstanding
in a particular company, while controlling for movements in the aggregate market.12 While there is
a range of estimates, the order of magnitude of the multiplier is around 1. That is, buying 1% of
the shares outstanding of a given stock results makes its price increase by around 1%.
  12
     Also, the empirical market microstructure estimates of price impact are larger than what we find: the price
impact that the microstructure literature finds is a factor of about 15 (Bouchaud et al. (2018); Frazzini et al. (2018)),
which may make our estimate of 5 seem moderate. Microstructure results are typically couched in a form such as
“buying 2.5% of the daily volume of a stock creates a permanent price increase of 0.15%”. At first glance, values in
this range might appear to imply a small price impact. However, they work out to a large price impact multiplier of
M = 15: with 250 days of trading in a year, and a 100% per year turnover, the trade in our example would represent
a purchase of 2.5%
                250 = 0.01% of the market capitalization of a stock, so that the impact of 0.15% on the price results in
a multiplier of 15. The interpretation of this kind of microstructure estimates requires some caution, as we discuss in
Section G.5. To sum up, a microstructure estimate of 15 may have the following interpretation: in inelastic markets
with a micro elasticity equal to 1, a large market-wide desired trade (“metaorder”) is on average split into 15 smaller
trades executed over time, by one or several institutions collectively (for example, by three funds pursuing a similar
strategy, each splitting their desired position change into five smaller trades). These microstructure estimates are
also themselves to be taken with caution, since identification tends to be diﬃcult as trades are not exogenous to
prices. Using high frequency data with a GIV-based identification may be a promising way to enrich identification
procedures in microstructure.



                                                           11
    In addition, several recent studies (sometimes motivated by the present paper) have looked at
the “factor-level” multiplier, which is the price impact if an investor buys a fraction of the shares
outstanding of a cross-sectional factor such as size or value. We report those estimates in Panel B.
The studies report a multiplier that is substantially above 1 and closer to 5. In Panel C, we report
recent estimates of the “macro multiplier,” the parameter of interest in this paper, for various stock
markets.13 Once again, the multiplier estimates are well above 1. Equivalently, the macro elasticity,
which is the inverse of the multiplier, is well below 1.
    In addition to these estimates, Haddad et al. (2021) find that micro multipliers increase in firm
size and, relatedly, Li and Lin (2022a) find that multipliers increase in the level of aggregation.
They find a micro multiplier around 2 and a multiplier around 5 at the factor level.
    Another important question is whether prices revert back to their levels prior to the shock and
how long this takes. While this question is explored only in a subset of the papers, Lou (2012) finds
that it takes between six to nine quarters for prices to revert back. Ben-David et al. (2020a) find that
it takes about two to three years for prices to revert back at the factor level. Pavlova and Sikorskaya
(2020) show how stocks included or excluded in an index have diﬀerences in average returns from
one year up to five years. Taken together, the existing evidence in the literature suggests a micro
multiplier around 1 (so, a micro elasticity around 1), and a factor or macro multiplier that is well
above 1 (so, a macro elasticity below 1). In addition, the estimated eﬀects are not confined to high
frequency eﬀects, and are of relevance to macro finance theories.
    How do these estimates compare to the elasticities implied by standard asset pricing models? It
is well known (e.g. Petajisto (2009)) that the micro elasticity in standard models is very large, of the
order of 5000 or above. This implies that the micro multiplier (the inverse of the micro elasticity)
is essentially zero and “demand curves are virtually flat.” Based on the estimates reported in Table
1, the models are several orders of magnitudes oﬀ in terms of the micro elasticity.
    Our focus is on the macro elasticity and we compute it for various frictionless neoclassical asset
pricing models in Section F.4.14 The summary is that in traditional, elastic asset pricing models the
macro elasticity is around 10 to 20, leading to a multiplier around 0.1 to 0.05. As any two stocks
are closer substitutes than stocks and bonds, the micro multiplier is much lower than the macro
multiplier in standard asset pricing models. However, the micro multiplier as estimated in the
literature (see Panel A) is already an order of magnitude larger than the macro multiplier implied
by standard asset pricing models. The macro multiplier estimates are even larger, which deepens
the disconnect between existing estimates and asset pricing models. In Figure 3, we provide a direct
comparison of the empirical estimates to both the macro elasticities implied by theoretical models.
The micro elasticity implied by theory is two orders of magnitude larger.

The profession’s view on the macro elasticity and the underlying mechanism While
the disconnect between the empirical estimates and asset pricing models follows from the existing
literature, these facts have typically not been targeted in macro-finance asset pricing models. In
fact, as we will discuss now, this evidence does not appear to be widely known or accepted in the
profession.
  13
     In interpreting the multipliers in the context of various theories, it is important to note that some shocks are in
principle anticipated (for instance, those related to dividend payouts), while others are unanticipated (for instance,
those related to mutual fund flows). In traditional models, and also in our theory, anticipated flows have a smaller
impact on prices compared to unanticipated flows.
  14
     We discuss the elasticity in the models of Lucas (1978), Bansal and Yaron (2004), Barro (2006), Gabaix (2012),
and the link between our findings and Johnson (2006).


                                                          12
Figure 3: Comparison of elasticity estimates to the elasticities implied by frictionless neoclassical
theories. We compare the empirical elasticity estimates reported in Figure 2 to the elasticity implied
by theory, which is around 20 (depending on the model). The theoretical micro elasticity is two
orders of magnitudes larger and omitted for clarity.




    We quantify this via two surveys. We provide a detailed discussion in Section E and summarize
the main insights here. We conducted a first survey by putting out a request via Twitter (using
the #econtwitter tag) to complete an online survey. In addition, we asked participants of an
online seminar at VirtualFinance.org to complete the same survey – this latter audience being
naturally more representative of the population of academic researchers in finance. Both surveys
were conducted before the paper was available online and before the seminar was conducted. We
received 192 responses for the Twitter survey and 102 responses for the survey connected to the
finance seminar.
    The survey question was the following: “If a fund buys $1 billion worth of US equities (perma-
nently; it sells bonds to finance that position), slowly over a quarter, how much does the aggregate
market value of equities change?” The answer given in this paper is M times a billion, where M is
the macro multiplier, which we estimate to be around M = 5. In both surveys, the median answer
was M = 0: surveyed economists, logically enough, rely on the traditional asset pricing model in
which prices are unperturbed by flows. The median positive answer was M = 0.01.15 Hence, sur-
veyed economists’ views are in line with the traditional model, but far from the estimates reported
in the empirical literature, and the new estimates we provide.
    We also asked about the sector supposedly providing elasticity to the market to be able to
explore the mechanism. The two most common responses were hedge funds and broker dealers.
As discussed before, those sectors are unlikely to provide elasticity to the aggregate market, in
particular during times of stress.
  15
    The answer M      1 was given by only 2.5% of respondents in the Twitter survey and by 4% of respondents in
the VirtualFinance.org survey. Section E provides further details.




                                                      13
3        The Inelastic Markets Hypothesis: Theory
We now provide a model that we think is more realistic to think concretely about the determinants
of stock demand, and about how flows impact prices. It is highly stylized, but will be useful to
think about the determinants of elasticity (both conceptually and in terms of calibration) and to
guide empirical work. We start with a two-period version, and then proceed to an infinite-horizon
variant.

3.1      Two-period model
There is a representative stock in fixed supply of Q shares, with an endogenous price P . The
                                                                                                e
economy lasts for two periods t = 0, 1. The dividend D is paid at time 1. We call ⇡ = DP           1 rf
the equity premium (with De := E[D] the expected dividend at time 0 and rf the risk-free rate), ⇡       ¯
the average equity premium, and ⇡   ˆ := ⇡ ⇡ ¯ the deviation of the equity premium from its average.
There is also a riskless bond with time-0 price equal to 1 (we endogenize the risk-free rate in Section
5).16
    A representative consumer invests into stocks and bonds via I institutions or funds.17 We call
Wi fund i’s wealth (or equivalently assets under management) and Qi the number of stock market
shares it holds. Therefore the fraction of fund i’s wealth invested in equities is PWQii . We assume that
fund i’s demand for stocks is given by a mandate, saying that it should have a fraction invested in
equities equal to:18
                                             P Qi
                                                   = ✓i ei ⇡ˆ ,                                      (1)
                                              Wi
while the rest is in the riskless bond. In the simplest case, i = 0, fund i has a fixed mandate to
invest a fraction ✓i 0 of its wealth in equities. When i > 0 the fund allocates more in equities
when they have higher expected excess returns (hence, i indexes how contrarian or forward-looking
the fund is). This demand function appears sensible, and could be micro-founded along many lines
– but to go straight to the eﬀects we are interested in, we take it as an exogenous mandate.19020021
We use the index i = 0 for a special fund, a “pure bond fund” that only holds bonds (so, its ✓i and
i are 0).
    If consumers were fully rational, the mandate would not matter: consumers would undo all
mechanical impacts of the mandate. But consumers will not be fully rational, so mandates will
    16
      Here, flows move equity prices but not bond prices. In the general equilibrium version of Section 5, this happens
because the consumer’s demand is infinitely elastic with respect to bond prices. We sketch the case where both
equity and bond demands are inelastic in Section G.1: the economics is similar, replacing the elasticity by a matrix
of own- and cross-elasticities.
   17
      Those funds act competitively, i.e. are price takers.
   18
      We write the mandate in “number of shares,” but it is equivalent to a “fraction of assets invested in equity”
formulation.
   19
      This fund’s mandate can be viewed as a stand-in for other frictions such as inertia or a rule of thumb that a
behavioral household might follow for its stock allocation. As a result, the institutionalization of the market does
not necessarily result in more inelasticity as it depends on how households manage their own portfolios. Parker et
al. (2020) argue that the growth of target date funds made the market more elastic. In the our notation, target date
funds have i = 0.
   20
      Buﬀa et al. (2019) explore the implications of tracking error constraints on asset prices.
   21
      The mandate does not feature volatility, as volatility is not crucial here to obtain demand curves (though volatility
is crucial for that in the traditional model). One could easily write extensions where the allocation decreases in
volatility. In the dynamic model, we add a demand shock that can include volatility terms.


                                                            14
have an impact.

The elasticity of demand for stocks of a fund We use bars to denote values at time t = 0 ,
before any shocks. At that time 0 , fund i has wealth W̄i , and holds Q̄i shares. We assume that
before the shocks, equities have an equity premium ⇡   ¯ , so that the dividend-price ratio is at its
                            D¯e
corresponding value, = P̄ , where P̄ , D̄ are the baseline values for the stock’s price and the
                                            e

expected dividend.
    At time 0, the representative household invests Fi extra dollars in each fund i (taking those
dollars from the pure bond fund), which represents a fractional inflow fi = W̄Fii . An outflow
corresponds to Fi < 0. We study the impact of this on the aggregate market, independently of
the reasons for the flows, which may be rational or behavioral. We also assume that there may be a
change d in the value of expected fundamentals. We call qi and d the fractional deviations of equity
demand and of the expected dividend from their baseline values:
                                            Qi                     De
                                       qi =        1,            d= e          1.                           (2)
                                            Q̄i                    D̄
   The next proposition gives the change in demand by fund i. Its proof is in Appendix A. We
perform the analysis for small disturbances fi , d, and hence small p, qi , here and throughout the
paper.22

Proposition 1. (Demand for aggregate equities in the two-period model) Fund i’s demand change
(compared to the baseline) is, linearizing:

                                           qi =    ⇣i p + i d + fi ,                                       (3)

where    is the baseline dividend-price ratio, and ⇣i is the elasticity of equity demand by fund i,

                                              ⇣i = 1        ✓i +  i .                                      (4)

The aggregate elasticity of demand for stocks, and the “representative mixed           P fund” We
now move from fund-level demand to the aggregate demand for stocks, which is Q = i Q̄i (1 + qi ) .
We call WiE the equity holdings (in dollars) of fund i, and Si its share of total equity holdings:

                                                                  W̄ E    Q̄i
                            WiE = Qi P = ✓i Wi ,            Si = P i E = P       .                          (5)
                                                                   j W̄j   j Q̄j

Finally, for a given variable xi (with i = 1 . . . I), we define xS to be its equity-holdings weighted
mean:                                               X
                                           xS :=        Si x i .                                   (6)
                                                            i

So, the aggregate demand change is:
                                                  P                  X
                                       Q              i Q̄i qi
                                   q=    =                       =       S i qi = qS .
                                      Q               Q              i

  22
   Following common practice in macro-finance, we do Taylor expansions of the leading terms, omitting the formal
mentions of O (·) terms.


                                                          15
To derive an expression for it, we take the individual demand curves (3), and consider their equity-
holdings weighted average, which gives the (linearized) aggregate demand curve for equities:

                                            qS =   ⇣S p + S d + fS .
Proposition 2 sums this up.
Proposition 2. (Aggregate demand for aggregate equities in the two-period model) The aggregate
demand for equities is
                                        q = ⇣p +  d + f,                                         (7)
                P
where ⇣ = ⇣S = i Si ⇣i is the equity-holdings weighted demand elasticity of all funds i, and likewise
for the other quantities:

                             ✓ = ✓S ,         = S ,        ⇣ = ⇣S ,   f = fS .                           (8)

In particular, ⇣ is the macro elasticity of demand:

                                               ⇣=1       ✓+ .                                             (9)

Hence, the universe of equity-holding funds in the model aggregates
                                                           PI       (up to second order terms in fi
and d) to a “representative mixed fund” with wealth W = i=1 Wi , and whose mandate is to hold
an equity share PWQ = ✓eˆ⇡ .

The “aggregate flow into equities” is non-zero
                                           P      even though “for every buyer there is a
seller” The equity-share weighted flow fS = i Si fi in (8) can also be expressed as23
                                           P
                                              ✓i F i
                                       fS = i E ,                                     (10)
                                             W̄
i.e. as the sum of the dollar inflows Fi into each fund i, times the marginal propensity of fund i
                                                                                                 24
to invest in equities, ✓i , as a fraction of the
                                             P the baseline value of aggregate equities W = QP̄ .
                                                                                         E

At the same time the net total flow is 0, i Fi = 0, as one bond  P removed from one fund goes to
another fund, and the net amount of equities purchased is 0, i Qi = 0, as the net amount of
shares is constant:25                 X              X
                                            Fi = 0,         Qi = 0.                           (11)
                                        i                     i

Hence, there is a well-defined notion of “the aggregate flow into equities,” fS (equation (10)) which
is generically non-zero, even though “for every buyer there is a seller” (equation (11)).

The impact of flows on the aggregate price We now analyze what happens after the aggregate
inflow fS in equities. We assume from now on that ⇣ > 0. As the supply of shares does not change,
we must have q = 0 in the equilibrium after the flow shock. Given (7), we have 0 = q = ⇣p + f ,
and the price change must be p = f⇣ . Proposition 3 summarizes this.26
 23                  W̄ E              P           P W̄ E            P
    Indeed, as ✓i = W̄ii ,we have fS = i Si fi = i WiE W̄Fii = W1E i ✓i FiE .
 24
    This is analogous to the marginal propensity to take risk in Kekre and Lenel (2020).
 25
    For instance, if there are just the pure bond fund and a mixed fund, then the bond flow into the mixed fund
 F1 is compensated by a flow out of the pure bond fund, so F0 =           F1 .
 26
    It is exact when all i = 0 and it uses a first-order Taylor expansion for small flows f when i 6= 0.


                                                        16
Proposition 3. Suppose that the representativePconsumer invests Fi in each fund i, so that the
total inflow in equities is a fraction f = fS = i Si W̄Fii of the value of equities. Then, the stock
price changes by a fraction p := P P̄ P̄ equal to:
                                                         f
                                                    p=     ,                                                (12)
                                                         ⇣
where ⇣ is the macro elasticity of demand defined in (9).
   This illustrates that flows can have large price impacts if the price elasticity of demand ⇣ is
suﬃciently low, and shows the key role of this price elasticity, which is the center of this paper.27

An undergraduate example To think through the economics of Proposition 3, we found the
following simple, undergraduate-level example useful. Suppose that there are just two funds: the
pure bond fund and the representative mixed fund, which always holds 80% in equities (the mag-
nitude suggested by Figure 1). Then, ✓ = 0.8,  = 0, so that ⇣ = 1 ✓ = 0.2 and ⇣1 = 5. Then an
extra 1% inflow into the stock market increases the total market valuation by 5%.
    It is instructive to think through the logic of this example. Suppose that the representative
mixed fund starts with $80 in stocks (of which there are 80 shares, worth $1 each) and $20 in
bonds. There are also $B worth of bonds outstanding. Suppose now that an outside investor sells
$1 of bonds from the pure bond fund (he had $B $20 in the pure bond fund, and now he has
$B $21), and invests this $1 into the mixed fund. In terms of “direct impact”, there is a $0.8 extra
demand for the stock (equal to 1% of the stock market valuation), and $0.2 for the bonds. But that
is before market equilibrium forces kick in.
    What is the final outcome? In equilibrium, the pure bond fund still holds $B $21 worth of
bonds. The balanced fund’s holdings are $21 in bonds (indeed, it holds the remaining $21 of bonds)
and 4 ⇥ $21 = $84 in stocks (as the balanced fund keeps a 4:1 ratio of stocks to bonds, the value
of the stocks it holds must be $84). As the balanced fund holds all 80 shares, the stock price is
P = $8480
           = $1.05, whereas it started at P = $1: stock prices have increased by 5%. The fund’s
value also has increased by 5%, to $105.
    We see that the increase in stock prices is indeed by a factor ⇣1 = 1 1 ✓ = 5. Only $0.8 was
invested in equities, yet the value of the equity market increased by $4, again a five-fold multiplier.
We conclude with a few remarks.

Share repurchases and issuances are just a type of flow Suppose that corporations buy
back shares, meaning that they buy:
                           Net repurchases (in value)          Net issuances (in value)
                    fC =                              =                                 .                   (13)
                               Total equity value                Total equity value
Then, the basic net demand for shares is as above, using the total flow:
                                                f := fS + fC ,                                              (14)
which is equal to the size-weighted total flow in the funds, fS , plus share repurchases (as a fraction
of the market value of equities). In short, on top of the traditional flows of investors into equities,
  27
   If d 6= 0, there is an extra eﬀect, and p = f⇣ + ⇣ d, with ⇣ < 1. This implies that unaided by flows, prices
under-react to fundamentals in inelastic markets.


                                                       17
we want to add share repurchases by corporations. In addition, if firms have a supply elasticity ⇣C ,
then the basic equilibrium is: fS ⇣p = fC + ⇣C p. That is, a change in demand fS ⇣p equals a
change in supply fC + ⇣C p. Therefore p = f⇣+⇣
                                            S +fC
                                               C
                                                  , so that the eﬀective market elasticity is ⇣ + ⇣C .
In much of the paper, we assume that the supply of shares is inelastic, ⇣C = 0, which will prove to
be a good approximation.

The representative mixed fund’s equity share vs. the market-wide equity share There
are two notions of equity share. The traditional one is the wealth-weighted equity share:
                                     WE         Total value of Equities
                            ✓W =          =                                 ,                                      (15)
                                    E
                                   W +W B   Total value of Equities + Bonds
                                                 P
                                                     W✓
which can also be expressed as ✓W = Pi Wi i i . The other one is the equity-holdings weighted equity
                                    P                i
                                      WE✓
share defined earlier, ✓S =         Pi i E i ,
                                        where WiE was the equity holding of fund i. The former
                                      i Wi
share (✓W ) is directly available in aggregated data, while the latter (✓S ) is what matters for the
macro elasticity. They are diﬀerent, and indeed ✓S > ✓W .28 This makes the disaggregation issues
potentially non-trivial, and will require some care in the empirical part.
    Take the undergraduate example with just two funds, the mixed fund and the pure bond fund,
and  = 0. Then, whatever the flows, ✓S = ✓ is always constant, pinned by the mandate ✓ of that
mixed fund. However, ✓W varies over time, as flows in and out of equities change the market value
of equities, P .

3.2     Infinite horizon model
We extend the static model to a dynamic one. The forces will generalize in an empirically imple-
mentable way. There is again a constant risk-free rate rf , taken here to be exogenous. Section 5
endogenizes it in general equilibrium, but here we concentrate on the core economics of inelasticity.
The representative stock gives a dividend Dt .
   We consider the case where there is a pure bond fund and “representative mixed fund” trading
stocks and bonds. This allows us to zoom in on the core economics: an economy with several
funds can be represented via a single mixed fund to the leading order, as in Proposition 2.29 The
representative mixed fund has a mandate: the fraction invested in equities, PWt Qt
                                                                                t
                                                                                   , should be

                                                         Pt Q t
                                                                = ✓eˆ⇡t +⌫t ,                                     (16)
                                                          Wt
where as before ⇡ˆt := ⇡t ⇡¯ is the deviation of the equity premium from its average, and we allow
for additional demand shocks, ⌫t . These can be thought of as shocks to tastes or perceptions of risk.
We assume that dividends and interest rates on bonds are passed to consumers: hence, reinvesting
dividends counts as an inflow.
    To analyze this economy, it is useful to linearize it. This needs to be done around a simpler,
“baseline” economy, which is on a balanced growth path with a constant equity premium ⇡   ¯ . We call
                                                P          P           P
  28                                                          WE✓          W ✓2     EW [ ✓ 2 ]
     Indeed, using WiE = ✓i Wi , ✓S = ES [✓i ] = i Si ✓i = Pi Wi E i = Pi Wii ✓ii = EW [✓ii ]  EW [✓i ] = ✓W . As long as
                                                             i  i        i
there is a pure bond fund, the ✓i are not identical, and the inequality is strict. Formally, we assume that all funds
have weakly positive total wealth.
  29
     This is detailed in Appendix G.7.


                                                                 18
P̄t , D̄t , W̄t , and Q̄ the baseline price, dividend, wealth, and quantity of shares held by the mixed
fund. We assume that P̄t , D̄t , W̄t = P̄0 , D̄0 , W̄0 Gt : they grow with a common cumulative growth
factor Gt , such that GGt+1 t
                               follows an i.i.d. growth process with mean g. As the equity premium is
always ⇡¯ in the baseline economy, rf + ⇡      ¯ g = (1 + g) , with P̄W̄t Q̄t = ✓ and D̄  t
                                                                                        P̄t
                                                                                            = .30 At the same
time, the bond holdings of the mixed fund are B̄0 + F̄t , where F̄t is the cumulative dollar inflow
since time 0 (so F̄0 = 0): the only “new” bonds that the representative mixed fund has must come
from inflows, like in the undergraduate model above. They should also represent a fraction 1 ✓ of
the wealth of the fund, so that we have: B̄0 + F̄t = 1 ✓ ✓ P̄t Q. This means that F̄t = 1 ✓ ✓ P̄t P̄0 Q̄.
This is the flow consistent with a balanced growth path in the rational economy.
    We call pt , wt , dt , qt the deviations from the baseline, so that dt = D   t
                                                                               D̄t
                                                                                   1, pt = PP̄tt 1, wt = W t
                                                                                                         W̄t
                                                                                                              1,
                                                                                                             31
and qt = Q̄ 1. We define the flow ft as the scaled cumulative inflow in excess of the baseline:
          Qt


                                                                                 Ft         F̄t
                                                                      ft =                        .                                                       (17)
                                                                                      W̄t
We call the expected dividend deviation det = Et dt+1 . The expected excess return is ⇡t = Et [ Pt+1
                                                                                                  Pt
                                                                                                     +Dt+1 ]

rf , and we use the following Taylor expansion (see Section F for a derivation):
                                                        ˆt = (det
                                                        ⇡                    pt ) + Et [ pt+1 ] .                                                         (18)
The aggregate demand for stocks is as follows, generalizing (7).
Proposition 4. (Demand for aggregate equities in the infinite-horizon model) The demand change
for equities (compared to the baseline) is
                                          qt =          ⇣pt + ft + ⌫t +  det + Et [ pt+1 ] ,                                                            (19)
where ⇣ = 1        ✓ +  is the aggregate elasticity of the demand for stocks, as in (9).
    As the total number of shares is constant, the equilibrium condition is given by qt = 0. This
yields the stock price as follows (the proof is in Appendix A).
Proposition 5. (Equilibrium price in the infinite-horizon model) The equilibrium price of aggregate
equities is (expressed as a deviation from the baseline):
                                      X 1                 ✓                ◆
                                                 1            f⌧ + ⌫⌧
                            pt = E t                ⌧ t+1   ⇢            e
                                                                      + d⌧ ,                   (20)
                                       ⌧ =t
                                            (1 + ⇢)              ⇣

where ⇢ = ⇣ is the “macro market eﬀective discount rate”,
                                                                         ⇣     1 ✓
                                                               ⇢=          = +     .                                                                      (21)
                                                                               
The deviation of the equity premium from its average is:
                                                                    (1     ✓) pt            (ft + ⌫t )
                                                         ⇡
                                                         ˆt =                                                      .                                      (22)
                                 h                  i          h                 i    
  30                                 P̄t+1 +D̄t+1                  P̄t+1 (1+ )
       Indeed, 1 + rf + ⇡
                        ¯ = Et            P̄t
                                                        = Et           P̄t
                                                                                     = (1 + g) (1 + ) .
  31
                                                                           Pt
    This is extremely close to another definition, ft =                          s=0
                                                                                            Fs
                                                                                            Ws        1
                                                                                                          F̄s
                                                                                                                , but the above definition is the one warranted
by the theory.


                                                                                 19
    We next analyze the economics of Proposition 5. The classical (or undergraduate) “eﬃcient
markets” benchmark, where the risk premium is kept constant by very strong arbitrage forces,
corresponds to  = 1, so that ⇣ = 1 and ⇢ = .32
    In (20), the price discounts future dividends at a rate ⇢       given in (21). So, the market is
more myopic (higher ⇢) when it is less sensitive to the equity premium (lower ) and when the mixed
fund has a lower equity share (lower ✓).33 It makes good sense that a lower sensitivity to the equity
premium makes the market less reactive to the future, hence more myopic.34,35 In the rest of this
section, we set ⌫t = 0; the general case simply comes from replacing ft by ft + ⌫t .

A permanent inflow has a permanent eﬀect on the price and future expected returns
of equities Suppose that at time 0 there is an inflow f0 that does not mean-revert. Then, the
impact on the price at time t 0 is (via (20), with E0 [f⌧ ] = f0 ):
                                                               1
                                                     E0 [pt ] = f0 .                                                 (23)
                                                               ⇣

So, the “price impact” is permanent. As a result, the equity premium is permanently lower, E0 [ˆ  ⇡t ] =
    f0
    ⇣
       (see (18)) This is simply because, if the equity demand has permanently increased, equity
prices should be permanently higher.36
    Quantitatively, if prices increase by 10% due to uninformed flows, the per annum expected excess
return falls by a mere 0.3% (indeed, assuming a dividend yield of 3%, ⇡
                                                                      ˆ=      p = 3%⇥0.1 = 0.3%).
This is a vivid reminder that the absence of detectable market timing strategies tells us little about
market eﬃciency (Shiller (1984)). Similarly, Black (1986) famously argued that the aggregate stock
market can be mispriced by as much as a factor of two; in our model, if this is due to a permanent
inflow, that would lead to a 2% change in the expected excess return,37 which is less than a single
standard error deviation of the expected excess return estimate if one were to use 30 years of data.

The impact of a mean-reverting flow Suppose now that at time 0 there is an inflow f0 that
                                                                                   ⌧
mean-reverts at a rate f 2 [0, 1], so that the cumulative flow is E0 [f⌧ ] = (1 f ) f0 . Then, if

  32
      Strictly speaking, this is only true with risk-neutral arbitrageurs, so that the risk premium is 0. The general case
is in Section F.4 where the elasticity is still very high.
   33
      The formula extends to changes in the interest rate, as in rf t = r̄f + r̂f t . As (18) becomes ⇡    ˆt = Et pt+1 +
  (det pt ) r̂f t , all expressions are the same, replacing det by det 1 r̂f t , including in (20). We assume here that the
bond is very short term, with zero duration. If the bond has non-zero duration, there is another term corresponding
to the capital gains on bonds.
   34
      The intuition for the sign of the impact of ✓ on ⇢ is as follows: the extra term 1  ✓ in ⇢ = + 1  ✓ is the ratio
of the “present looking” (myopic) demand elasticity 1 ✓ to the “forward looking” elasticity . Hence a higher ✓
leads to a less myopic demand. This myopia in (20) generates momentum: because the market is myopic (by (20)),
dividend news are only slowly incorporated into the price.
   35
      Here the demand (19) depends on the equity premium as ⇡ˆt = Et pt+1 +  (det pt ). A variant would be
that investors “see” the price-dividend ratio as diﬀerently predictive from the expected price movement, so that in
their demand we equalize ˆ    ⇡t with Et pt+1 + D (det pt ) where potentially D 6=  (e.g., if “tangible” predictors
are deemed more reliable,  < D ). Then the demand elasticity is ⇣ = 1 ✓ + D , the eﬀective discount factor is
                                                           D
⇢ = ⇣ , and (20) still holds, after multiplying de⌧ by  . This highlights that D increases the market elasticity ⇣,
while  increases market “forward-lookingness” ⇢1 .
   36
      In a Kyle (1985) model, flows change prices, like in our model; but they do not on change the equity premium
(on average), which is a crucial diﬀerence with our model. Section G.5 details the link with the Kyle model.
   37
      Indeed, with p = ln 2, ⇡ˆ=      p = (3%) ⇥ 0.7 ' 2%.


                                                            20
there are no further disturbances, the impact on the time-t price is pt = ⇣+
                                                                            ft
                                                                               f
                                                                                 (see (20)), implying
                                                                  t
                                                          (1   f)
                                               E0 [pt ] =           f0 ,                                        (24)
                                                           ⇣ + f
                                                                  + t
and the change in the equity premium is E0 [ˆ ⇡t ] = ⇣+ ff (1   f ) f0 (see (22)). Hence, an inflow
that has faster mean reversion leads to a smaller change in the price of equities (compared to
                                                                                             +
a permanent inflow), but a larger change in their equity premium on impact (indeed, ⇣+ ff is
increasing in f ). Those eﬀects dissipate as the inflow mean-reverts, at a rate f .

Predictable future inflows or changes in fundamentals create predictable price drifts
Suppose that it is announced at time 0 that a permanent inflow fT will happen at time T > 0. The
price impact for t 2 [0, T ] is pt = (1+⇢)1 T t f⇣T (see (20), using f⌧ = 1⌧ T fT ), so that after the initial
jump, the price gradually drifts upward (assuming for concreteness that the inflow is positive).
Hence, the risk premium is elevated by ⇡      ˆt = 1  ✓ pt (for t 2 [0, T ), see (22)), and more elevated as
one nears the inflow. After the inflow, though, we are back to the case of a permanently elevated
price and permanently lower equity premium (pt = f⇣T and ⇡           ˆt =      fT
                                                                                ⇣
                                                                                  for t T ). The same price
drift before the shock happens for a predictable increase in future fundamentals such as dividends.

A simple benchmark To think about the stochastic steady state, it is useful to consider ft as
an autoregressive process with speed of mean-reversion f :
                                                                        f
                                             ft = (1       f ) f t 1 + "t ,                                     (25)
         h i
with Et 1 "ft = 0. Then, a high inflow increases equity prices and hence lowers the equity premium,
in the following precise manner:38
                                                                  1
                   pt = bpf ft ,    ˆt = b⇡f ft ,
                                    ⇡                  bpf =          ,       b⇡f =   ( +        p
                                                                                            f ) bf .            (26)
                                                               ⇣ + f

Calibration We want to understand how a macro price impact of M ' 5 might arise, and for
this we calibrate the model. When flows are mean-reverting with speed f , the price impact is
M = ⇣1M , with ⇣ M = ⇣ +  f = 1 ✓ +  ( + f ) (see (9), (24), and (26)). Some parameters
are easy to estimate. We take a dividend-price ratio = D P
                                                           = 3.7%/year (we use annualized units
              39
throughout). We calibrate f = 4%/year to match the speed of mean-reversion of the dividend-
price ratio.40 Given the results in Figure 1, we take an equity share ✓ = 87.5% (equity-holdings
weighted as in ✓S ).
    Calibrating  is most challenging. We perform a few thought experiments to see what we
might expect  to be. The simplest rational model of portfolio choice where ✓it = ⇡i t 2 gives
  38
      This can be derived by plugging in those values in (19) with q = 0 in equilibrium, or via (20).
  39
      Section H.1 details how to go from continuous to discrete time.
   40
      We compute the dividend yield by summing dividends during the last 12 months relative to the current level
of the CRSP value-weighted return index from January 1947 to December 2018. The annual autocorrelation of the
log dividend yield during this sample is equal to ⇢OLS = 0.91 with OLS standard errors equal to 0.048. We then
remove the Kendall (1954) bias 1+3⇢  T  over our sample of T = 72 years, which is around 72     4
                                                                                                  . Thus we calibrate
              OLS   4
  f =1      ⇢      72 ' 4%.


                                                          21
 = d ln ✓it
       d⇡t
             = ⇡1¯ = 22, using an annual equity premium of 4.4%.41 But, we rarely observe such large
swings in investors’ portfolios: the frictionless rational model predicts agents that are much too
reactive, like in much of this paper, and in much of economics (Gabaix (2019)). To get a further
feel for , suppose the equity premium increases from ⇡t = 5% to ⇡t = 10%, which is a shift
equal to about one to two standard deviations of its unconditional time-series variation (Cochrane
(2011); Martin (2017)). A very flexible fund with an average equity share of 50% might change
its equity allocation from 50% to 75%. This flexible fund would have i = d ln   d⇡
                                                                                   ✓i
                                                                                      = ln 0.75
                                                                                             0.05
                                                                                                  ln .5
                                                                                                        ' 8.
However, these are large swings in a fund’s strategic asset allocation that are not typically observed
empirically, so that they are at most valid only for very flexible investors. As many balanced funds
have a fixed-share mandate and  = 0, we hypothesize a i for a typical fund with equity share of 50%
equal to about 4. Moreover, a 100% equity funds needs to have i = 0; more generally, the rigidity
mechanically should increase with the equity share ✓i . So, we might tentatively parametrize a typical
value of  as i = K (1 ✓i ), with K ' 8. So, we obtain  = S = K (1 ✓S ) ' 8 ⇥ (1 0.88) ' 1.
This gives a simple microeconomic interpretation for the value  = 1. Together, this yields ⇣ = 0.16,
and ⇣ M = 0.2, so that the price impact is indeed M = ⇣1M = 5. If the flows are extremely persistent,
the subtle diﬀerence between ⇣ and ⇣ M vanishes ( f ,which is 0.04 in the calibration, goes to 0).


4        Estimating the Aggregate Market Multiplier and Elastici-
         ties
The previous sections illustrate the importance of estimating the elasticity of the aggregate stock
market. Estimating this parameter is a challenge, as is the case for most elasticities in macroeco-
nomics. In the context of asset pricing, large literatures try to estimate the coeﬃcient of relative
risk aversion, the elasticity of inter-temporal substitution, and the micro elasticity of demand, but
the macro elasticity is a new parameter of interest that is first estimated in this paper.42
    The key diﬃculty is that prices, equity demand, and flows are in part driven by aggregate shocks,
such as macroeconomic news, so that naively regressing prices on flows or flows on prices would not
yield a consistent estimate of the elasticity or multiplier. Hence, we need an instrument.
    We show how to estimate macro multipliers and elasticities by decomposing demand shocks of
diﬀerent investors into (i) aggregate shocks, which shift the equity demand of all investors at the
same time (albeit with potentially diﬀerent loadings), and (ii) idiosyncratic shocks that only shift
the equity demand of a subset of investors. We first develop the general intuition in Section 4.1.
We also use this framework to interpret the identifying assumptions in Table 1 that have been used
in the related literature. Our empirical strategy is an application of the method called Granular
Instrumental Variables (GIV), which we conceived for the present paper, and lay out in Gabaix and
Koijen (2020).
    In Section 4.2 to Section 4.3, we provide two implementations of our general idea. First, in
Section 4.2, we estimate the aggregate multiplier using shocks to mutual fund flows and data from
13F filings to construct aggregate factors. Second, in Section 4.3, we use data from the Flow of
Funds to estimate the aggregate elasticity and multiplier.
    41
      This is for a fund maximizing rationally a CRRA function of financial wealth. In Section F.4 we consider a more
sophisticated thought experiment, with a consumer maximizing lifetime utility out of labor income in additional to
financial wealth. Then, the value of ⇣ is even higher.
   42
      See Table 1 for a summary of related estimates in the literature.



                                                         22
    Each settings has advantages and disadvantages in terms of the assumptions that we have to
make, and there are diﬀerences in the quality of the data that are available to us in estimating the
elasticities and the multiplier. With that said, the combined evidence suggests that the aggregate
stock market is inelastic (in line with the findings of Table 1).
    Given the relevance of this parameter, we believe it would be valuable for future empirical asset
pricing research to explore diﬀerent estimation and identification strategies in estimating its value.
    We conclude this section by connecting capital flows to macroeconomic variables and measures
of beliefs to provide an initial analysis of the potential determinants of flows into the equity market.

4.1    Estimating aggregate elasticities and multipliers
Notation We first provide a brief summary of the GIV method—the appendix and Gabaix and
Koijen (2020) provide further details, such as a justification of consistency and extensions. Recall
that we use the following notations, with the shares Si adding up to 1:
             N                     N
        1 X                        X                                  X
 XEt :=       Xit ,       XSt :=         Si,t 1 Xit ,      XSti :=             Sj,t 1 Xjt ,   X t := XSt   XEt . (27)
        N i=1                      i=1                                j,j6=i

The shares, Sit = PQitQit , is the fraction of the market held by investor i.
                      i


                                                                                                            Q   Q
A factor-based demand system for the aggregate stock market Let qit = itQi,t i,t1 1
denote a time series of fractional changes in investors’ equity holdings, where i indexes investors as
before. To develop the main idea, we model qit as (omitting constants):43
                                                qit =     ⇣i pt + fit⌫ ,                                        (28)
where pt is the aggregate stock return and ⇣i is the demand elasticity of investor i. Depending on
the empirical setting, we will impose additional restrictions on the elasticities.
   We model the demand disturbance fit⌫ as:
                                                 fit⌫ =   0
                                                          i ⌘t + uit ,                                          (29)
where ⌘t is a vector of common shocks (which can include observable factors, such as GDP growth,
or latent factors), i is a vector of factor loadings, and uit is an idiosyncratic shock. The key
identifying assumption that we make throughout is that
                                                   E [uit ⌘t ] = 0.                                             (30)

Estimating the multiplier and elasticities Aggregating the individuals demands (28) as in
Proposition 2, the aggregate demand is qSt = ⇣S pt + fSt      ⌫
                                                                . Using market clearing, we have
 qSt = 0, that is
                                     pt = M ( 0S ⌘t + uSt ) ,                               (31)
for the multiplier
                                                                1
                                                        M=        .
                                                               ⇣S
 43
    To lighten things up, we simplify a bit the notations. Compared to (19), we use the notation fit⌫ for fit⌫ :=
 fit + ⌫it , whete we absorb the change-in-expectation terms i Et [ det + pt+1 ] into the “demand shifter” ⌫it .


                                                          23
The goal is to estimate the multiplier M or, equivalently, the aggregate elasticity, ⇣S .
   If we substitute the market clearing price into the demand equation (28), we have

                                                                ⇣i
                                           qit = ˜ 0i ⌘t           uSt + uit ,                            (32)
                                                                ⇣S

where ˜ i = i ⇣⇣Si S .
     The key idea of the GIV method is to identify M and ⇣S using variation that comes from the
idiosyncratic shocks, uit . Indeed, if we have access to uSt , we can just estimate M by OLS, regressing
  pt = M uSt + "t (this is warranted from our assumption (30). Likewise, to estimate the elasticity ⇣i
of a sector i, we can use the (size-weighted average) of idiosyncratic shocks u it across other sectors
to instrument the price. The GIV method also provides a way to estimate the idiosyncratic shocks
uit ,or a proxy for them: we explain the specifics below.
     While we can use the idiosyncratic shocks uit , it is worth highlighting that we cannot use
aggregate shocks ⌘t for identification. As can be seen from (32), the covariance matrix of demand
changes can identify ˜ i , which depends on i and ⇣⇣Si , hence we cannot identify our parameters of
interest. Intuitively, if an investor sells in response to an aggregate shock, we do not know whether
this is because of a high exposure in i or because the investor’s demand elasticity diﬀers from the
aggregate demand elasticity, ⇣i 6= ⇣S .
     We detail in each application how to estimate those idiosyncratic shocks empirically to make
the above reasoning valid. The general case is covered in Gabaix and Koijen (2020).

GIV: Requirements and threats to identification For the GIV to be consistent, we need
E[uit ⌘t ] = 0 to hold: the idea is that there are random “bets” or “shocks” to various fund managers,
institutions and sectors, that are orthogonal to all reasonable common macro factors such as GDP,
TFP, and so forth. For the GIV to be a powerful instrument, we need large idiosyncratic shocks,
and a few large sectors, so that the market is “granular” in the sense that the idiosyncratic shocks to
a few large sectors meaningfully aﬀect the aggregate.44 Fortunately, this is verified in our setting, as
it is in related settings in macro (Gabaix (2011), Carvalho and Grassi (2019)), trade (Di Giovanni
and Levchenko (2012)) or finance (Amiti and Weinstein (2018), Herskovic et al. (forthcoming),
Galaasen et al. (2020)). Ben-David et al. (forthcoming) and Ghysels et al. (2021) study the impact
of investor granularity on the cross-section of US stock returns.
     The main threats to identification with GIV are that we do not properly control for common
factors, or that the loadings on the omitted factor are correlated with size, such that S        E 6= 0.
To mitigate the risk of omitted factors, we extract additional factors and explore the stability of
the estimates as we add extra factors.

Connection to other identifying strategies in the literature The intuition behind our
identification strategy ties back to the empirical strategies that have been used in the literature
so far. Indeed, the typical approach is to isolate an idiosyncratic demand shock to a (group of)
investors that does not aﬀect the demand of other investors other than through price.
    The classic approach is to look at stocks that have been included in (or deleted from) a bench-
mark. If changes in the composition of the benchmark are random, the inelastic demand from
  44
                                                                                P
    Indeed, when flow shocks have volatility u , var (uS ) = H u2 , with H = j Sj2 . This “Herfindahl” H of the
holdings shares must be high: so we need a few large entities, such as funds or sectors.



                                                           24
benchmark-restricted investors provide exogenous demand shocks. This demand shock is idiosyn-
cratic from the perspective of investors who are not compared to the benchmark. This uit from
benchmark-restricted investors can thus be used to estimate the (micro) multiplier and the elasticity
of unconstrained investors.
    As a second example, a recent literature that constructs instruments using payouts by firms.
The basic intuition is that there is a long lag between the date that a dividend is declared (and
thus when investors learn new information about the firm or the market) and when the dividend is
actually paid. This anticipated cash flow provides a shift in demand and several papers have used
it to estimate micro and macro multipliers (Schmickler, 2020; Hartzmark and Solomon, 2022).
    As a third example, Ben-David et al. (2020a) use a change in the Morningstar ratings method-
ology that changed how flows are directed to diﬀerent factors. This is an idiosyncratic demand
shocks from the perspective of all investors other than mutual funds and can thus be used as a valid
instrument.
    Obtaining such events at the level of the aggregate stock market is challenging, and we there-
fore rely on estimating a factor model to isolate the idiosyncratic shocks. In each of the three
applications, we discuss how we specialize the general methodology to our specific setting.

When firms are elastic and flows mean-revert When firms have a supply elasticity ⇣C , the
total elasticity is ⇣ + ⇣C , as we saw in Section 3.1. When flows mean-revert with speed f , the
measured elasticity is ⇣ +  f , as we saw in (24) and (26). Combining those two extensions, the
measured price impact is
                                        1
                                  M = M,        ⇣ M := ⇣ +  f + ⇣C .                       (33)
                                       ⇣
As  f and ⇣C appear to be small, the diﬀerence between ⇣, ⇣ +  f and ⇣ M is rather minor, and is
best ignored in the first pass. Still, to be completely explicit, when we empirically measure “⇣,” we
actually measure a quantity that is ⇣ +  f + ⇣C if flows mean-revert at speed f and firms have a
supply elasticity ⇣C , and is strictly speaking ⇣ only when flows do not mean-revert and ⇣C = 0.

4.2     Multiplier estimates: Evidence from mutual fund flows
Data In this section, we combine investor-level data from 13F filings and fund-level mutual fund
data.45 We use 13F data from FactSet that cover the period from 2000.Q1 to 2019.Q4, and we follow
the data construction as in Koijen et al. (2019). Monthly mutual fund data come from Morningstar
and it covers the period from January 1993 to December 2019.
    We use the disaggregated mutual fund data to construct a measure of aggregate mutual fund
flows. We use equity weights in aggregating the flows of individual funds, as warranted by our
theory, see (10). Concretely, we start from the share invested in US equities by fund i, ✓it , assets
under management, Wit , and the flow Fit as defined by Morningstar. We compute fit = Wi,tFit1
                                                                         P
                                                                             ✓   W      f
and measure the aggregate flow into mutual funds as ftM F = iPi,t✓i,t1 1i,t 1
                                                                        Wi,t 1
                                                                               it
                                                                                  , which uses equity-
                                                                  i
weighting. We include “US equity,” “sector equity,” “international equity,” and “allocation” funds
in the analysis. When equity shares are missing at a monthly frequency, which are only used in
determining the weighting scheme, we fill them in using the most recent value for a given fund.
  45
    In the US, all institutional investment managers managing over $100 million or more in “13F securities” (which
include stocks) must report their holdings on Form 13F every quarter.



                                                       25
Lastly, we winsorize fit at 1% and 99% in each period before computing the aggregate flow. We
provide further details on the data construction in Appendix C.2.

Methodology Our first estimate of the multiplier starts from equation (31). We decompose
uSt = uStM F + StM 1F uM
                       t
                         F
                           and write the price equation as

                                    pt = M 0S ⌘t + M uStM F + M StM 1F uM
                                                                        t
                                                                          F
                                                                            .                                 (34)

The common factors, ⌘t , capture the comovement between the flows of mutual fund investors and
the aggregate demand shocks of other investors, for instance, in response to macroeconomic news.
The second term, uStM F , captures the idiosyncratic demand shocks of all other investors. The
final term captures the shocks specific to the mutual fund sector, StM 1F uM
                                                                           t
                                                                             F
                                                                               , multiplied by M . Our
objective in this section is to measure St 1 ut and then use it to estimate the multiplier, M .
                                         MF MF

    We proceed in four steps:
   1. We estimate innovations in mutual fund flows by removing the predictable component:
                                                       k
                                                       X
                                        ftM F = a0 +         al ftMlF + ct + ✏M F
                                                                              mt ,                            (35)
                                                       l=1

       We estimate the model at a monthly frequency. The estimates are reported in Table D.12
       in Online Appendix D.6. Based on the estimated model AR(k) model for flows, we define
       K = 1 P1k a . It is the cumulative flow due to shocks ✏M
                                                              mt . K✏mt is what matters according to
                                                                F    MF
                 l=1   l
                                                                                   F 46
       Proposition 5 as it measures the cumulative flow following an innovation ✏M
                                                                                 mt .   We aggregate
       the monthly innovations, ✏mt , for k = 3, in each quarter and refer to these innovations as
                                  MF

       ✏M
        t
          F
            .

   2. It is well known that the innovations, ✏M
                                              t
                                                F
                                                  , are correlated with contemporaneous realized re-
      turns (Warther (1995); Edelen and Warner (2001); Goetzmann and Massa (2003)). However,
      this correlation may simply be driven by aggregate demand shocks, ⌘t . We extend this litera-
      ture by removing aggregate demand factors and isolating the idiosyncratic demand shocks of
      mutual fund investors. Concretely, we model

                                             ✏M
                                              t
                                                F
                                                  =    0
                                                       0 ⌘t +
                                                                0        MF
                                                                1 C t + ut  ,                                 (36)

       where ⌘t are common unobserved factors, Ct are common observed factors, and uM
                                                                                    t
                                                                                      F
                                                                                        are the
       unique shocks to fund flows.

   3. To estimate ⌘t , we use the 13F filings of investors outside of the mutual fund industry (e.g.,
      pension funds, insurance companies, and so forth). We omit investors in the mutual fund
      industry, using the same assignment of investor types as in Koijen et al. (2019), by removing
      investment advisors and mutual funds. To estimate ⌘t , we consider an extension of the model
      in (28) and allow for heterogeneity in demand elasticities, ⇣i,t 1 , across investors and over
      time:
                                 qit = ↵i ⇣i,t 1 pt + 0i,t 1 ⌘t + i0 Ct + uit .
  46
    We abstract from additional discounting at a rate ⇢, as it is immaterial at the horizon of a few months that we
use. See Section G.5 for details.


                                                        26
       We assume a parametric specification for elasticities and a semi-parametric specification for
       factor loadings:
                              ⇣i,t 1 = ⇣˙ 0 xi,t 1 ,  i,t 1 =
                                                              ˙ 0 xi,t 1 + ¨ i ,
       where xi,t 1 is a vector of investor characteristics of which the first element is equal to 1, and
       ˙⇣, ˙ , and ¨ i are to be estimated. As investor characteristics, we use an investor’s active share
       and log AUM. In addition, we allow for non-parametric factors via ¨ i . We also control for
       macroeconomic factors, Ct , and allow for heterogeneous exposures via i0 Ct . We discuss in
       Section B.1 how we estimate the common factors, ⌘t , and we refer to the estimates as ⌘te .
   4. With estimates of ✏Mt
                            F
                              and ⌘t in hand, we regress returns on fund flow innovations, while
      controlling for common factors,
                                                               0 e
                                          pt = a + M Z t +      ⌘t + m 0 C t + e t ,
       where Zt = KStM 1F ✏M
                           t
                             F
                               . After controls, Zt is the surprise inflow unique to mutual funds, and
       implements (34). As a common observed factor, Ct , we use GDP growth. We also explore
       robustness to controlling for changes in volatility in Ct .

Empirical results The results are summarized in Table 2. The first column presents the results
with only Zt and GDP growth. The next four columns add the factors extracted from the 13F
data, ⌘te , as recommended by the GIV. In the final column, we also control for the quarterly
(percentage) change in volatility. Without controls other than GDP in Column 1, the multiplier
estimate equals M = 10.9. By adding additional controls, the R-squared value increases significantly
and the multiplier estimate lowers, as we would expect since demand shocks and prices are positively
correlated. With four additional factors, the R-squared value equals approximately 60% and the
multiplier drops to M = 7.7 with a standard error of 2.3. In the final column, we add changes
in volatility. While these do not correlate strongly with fund flow innovations, they do correlate
with returns. This suggests that other investors are negatively sensitive to volatility and this also
captures a source of demand shocks. The multiplier lowers further to 7.6 and the R-squared is now
70%.47 In Figure D.8, we also repeat the long-horizon analysis as in Figure 4. As before the impact
of flow shocks on prices is persistent although the confidence interval is wide at longer horizons of
one year.
    In summary, we find that the multiplier estimates are quite consistent with the estimates we
found using the FoF data. These estimates well above 1 are consistent with the estimates for other
countries and for style factors, see Table 1. Future research can explore other strategies to control
for common demand factors to sharpen the identification.

4.3     Multiplier and elasticity estimates: Evidence from the Flow of Funds
For our second application, we use data from the Flow of Funds. The advantages are that we use
a longer sample and that we can use the idiosyncratic shocks of all sectors, not just mutual funds.
As such, it is a typical implementation of the GIV procedure.
    A disadvantage is that the Flow of Funds data require additional measurement assumptions as
we discuss in Online Appendix C. Also, as the number of sectors is relatively small, we need to
make an additional assumption that ⇣i = ⇣.
  47
    As volatility is endogenous, it can be included only with interpretative circumspection. We include it here for
descriptive purposes.


                                                        27
Table 2: Estimates of the macro elasticity using mutual fund and 13F data. The first five columns
provide estimates of the multiplier M , which is the coeﬃcient on Zt = KStM 1F ✏ft , the innovation in
the cumulated inflow into mutual funds after controls. We regress returns on unexpected flows, ✏ft ,
times the share of aggregate equities held by the mutual fund sector, StM 1F , and adjusting for the fact
that inflows are autocorrelated (see (35) and the surrounding definition of K). In the first column
we only control for GDP growth and in the next four columns we add one to four common factors
to isolate the idiosyncratic component in mutual fund flows. The common factors are extracted
from 13F filings of institutions outside of the mutual fund industry. In the final column, we add
the change in quarterly volatility as an additional control. We report the standard errors, which
are corrected for autocorrelation, in parentheses. The sample is from 2000.Q1 to 2019.Q4.

                                       p      p      p      p      p      p
                   Z               10.93 10.85    8.54   7.69   7.69   7.62
                                   (2.64) (2.78) (2.18) (2.32) (2.34) (1.92)

                   GDP growth       4.19   4.21   4.94   4.99   5.00   3.43
                                   (1.23) (1.25) (0.96) (1.17) (1.17) (1.17)

                   PC1                       -0.91 -0.94 -0.95 -0.95     0.06
                                            (0.74) (0.60) (0.63) (0.63) (0.61)

                   PC2                               -2.98 -3.07 -3.07 -0.82
                                                    (0.66) (0.48) (0.48) (0.37)

                   PC3                                        -0.87 -0.87 -1.25
                                                             (0.56) (0.56) (0.41)

                   PC4                                                 0.11   -0.21
                                                                      (0.33) (0.38)

                                                                               -0.10
                                                                              (0.01)

                   Constant         0.00   0.00   -0.00 -0.00 -0.00    0.00
                                   (0.00) (0.00) (0.01) (0.00) (0.00) (0.00)
                   Observations      80     80     80     80     80     80
                   R2              0.426 0.438 0.556 0.565 0.566 0.699




                                                   28
Methodology: Simple example with uniform loadings We start with the case where there
is a single factor, ⌘t , and i = 1, so that all loadings on the common shock are uniform. Then, the
GIV is constructed from data as follows:

                                          Zt :=     q t=       qSt          qEt .

As     qSt =   ⇣ pt + ⌘t + uSt and        qEt =     ⇣ pt + ⌘t + uEt , we have:

                                             Zt = uSt      uEt = u t .                                          (37)

As u t is a combination of idiosyncratic shocks only, it is uncorrelated with ⌘t , see (30). This
orthogonality condition makes Zt = u t a valid instrument: it is our GIV. Furthermore, if uit is
homoskedastic, then u t is uncorrelated with uEt .48 This implies that pt = M u t + et , where
et = M (⌘t + uEt ) is uncorrelated with Zt . Hence, if we estimate the OLS regression

                                                   pt = M Z t + e t ,                                           (38)

then this identifies the true multiplier M . Alternatively, we can estimate ⇣ directly using Zt as an
instrumental variable for pt in the regression

                                                  qEt =    ⇣ pt + ✏t ,                                          (39)

with pt instrumented by Zt .
    Intuitively, we use the sector-specific, or idiosyncratic, demand shocks of one sector as a source
of exogenous price variation to estimate the demand elasticity of another sector. Viewed this
way, the GIV estimator generalizes the idea behind the index inclusion literature to estimate the
micro elasticity. In the index inclusion literature, a demand shock to the group of index investors
(assuming the inclusion of a stock into the index is random) can be used to estimate the slope of
the demand curve of the non-index investors.
    We reiterate that the methodology works even if we do not have data on flows fit —it is enough
to have data on changes in equity holdings qit . This implies that we identify idiosyncratic shocks
to fit⌫ = fit + ⌫it , where fit are capital flows and ⌫it are demand shocks.

Methodology: General case with non-uniform loadings In the general case with non-
uniform loadings and an r-dimensional vector of common latent shocks ⌘t , we define ǎit := ait aEt ,
that is, the cross-sectionally demeaned value of a vector at . We run a principal component analysis
(PCA) via the model
                                            q̌it = ˇ 0i ⌘t + ǔit .                             (40)
In this way, we extract r principal components, ⌘t . Then, we run the following OLS regression,
using the extracted factors ⌘t as controls:

                                              pt = M Z t +       0
                                                                     ⌘t + e t ,                                 (41)

and estimate the multiplier M as the coeﬃcient on the GIV Zt . The rest of Gabaix and Koijen
(2020) discusses numerous extensions of this basic structure and show its optimality by various
  48
    The same condition holds in the more general case of uncorrelated heteroskedastic uit , with the inverse variance
weights Ẽ, so Zt := qSt    qẼt (see Gabaix and Koijen (2020)).


                                                          29
metrics (e.g. it is GMM optimal). As before, we can estimate ⇣ directly using Zt as an instrumental
variable for pt in the regression
                                                                  0
                                             qEt =     ⇣ pt +         ⌘t + ✏ t .

We leave the technical details of the specific algorithms that we use to Appendix B.2. We demon-
strate the performance of the GIV estimator in our specific setting in Appendix D.1 using simula-
tions.

Empirical results We first report the GIV estimates of the macro elasticity using data from
1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4 using the Flow of Funds (FoF). Throughout this section, we model investors’
demand as
                                  qit = ↵i ⇣ pt + 0i ⌘t + uit ,                          (42)
where we assume that the demand elasticity is the same across sectors. We relax this assumption
below using 13F data. We consider the same model for the corporate sector, but allow for a diﬀerent
demand elasticity, ⇣C . The vector ⌘t includes GDP growth, a time trend,49 and one or more latent
factors, ⌘tP C .
    The results are presented in Table 3. The first column reports the estimates where we use a
single principal component to isolate the idiosyncratic shocks to various sectors, in addition to a
common factor on which all sectors load equally.
    We estimate a multiplier of M = 7.1, implying that purchasing 1% of the market results in a
7.1% change in prices. The corresponding standard error is 1.9.50 In the second column, we add a
second principal component. This lowers the multiplier estimate to M = 5.3. That is, purchasing
1% of the market results in a 5.3% change in prices. Both estimates imply that the aggregate stock
market is quite macro inelastic.
    In the next two columns, we estimate the elasticities, ⇣, by regressing demand changes on
instrumented changes in prices, as in (39). With one principal component, we estimate an elasticity
of ⇣ = 0.13 and with two principal components, we estimate ⇣ = 0.17. In the next two columns, we
estimate the supply elasticity ⇣C of the corporate sector. The short-run elasticity is low at ⇣C = 0.01
for both one and two principal components.51 This implies that the combined elasticity is 0.14 (with
one principal component) or 0.18 (with two principal components). The corresponding multipliers,
M = ⇣+⇣ 1
          C
            , are M = 7.1 and M = 5.9, respectively.
    In the final column, we report the same regression as in the first column but without the
instrument Zt . By comparing the R-squared values, we obtain an estimate of the importance of
sector-specific shocks on prices. We find that the diﬀerence in R-squared values is 16%, which
highlights the importance of sector-specific shocks on prices.
  49
      We include a time trend as some sectors grew faster in the nineties, for instance, than in the later period. We
show the robustness of our results to not including the time trend.
   50
      We report Newey-West standard errors using the bandwidth selection as in Newey and West (1994).
   51
      This small contemporaneous elasticity of the supply of shares by the corporate sector, estimated here causally
by IV, is consistent with the OLS findings of Ma (2019). She finds (Table VII) that Gross equity issuance
                                                                                            Assets              ⇡ (plus
                                                                                                          = 0.01ˆ
other terms) at the quarterly frequency. Using that equity is about two thirds of assets, this leads, at the annual
frequency, to qC = 32 · 4 · 0.01ˆ       ⇡ , so that (by (18)) ⇣C = ⇥ 0.06 = 0.0024. However, these estimates do not
                                ⇡ = 0.06ˆ
rule out the possibility that the medium- or long-run elasticities are higher and that firms play an important role in
stabilizing asset prices.




                                                          30
Table 3: Estimates of the macro elasticity. The first two columns report estimates of M with
one and two principal components, ⌘t , respectively. The next two columns report the elasticity
estimates, ⇣, regressing the equal-weighted change in equity holdings qE on the price change p
instrumented by the GIV Z. The next two columns report the elasticity of the corporate sector,
⇣C . The final columnPreports the estimates of the same specification as the first column, but we
omit Zt , where Zt = i Si,t 1 q̌it and q̌it defined in (67), to estimate the impact of sector-specific
shocks on prices. In constructing q̌it , all estimates control for quarterly GDP growth. We report
the standard errors, which are corrected for autocorrelation, in parentheses. The sample is from
1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.

                                p         p       qE      qE       qC      qC        p
            Z                7.08      5.28
                            (1.86)    (1.10)

                p                               -0.13 -0.17 -0.01 -0.01
                                               (0.04) (0.05) (0.01) (0.02)

            GDP growth       5.99      5.97     0.56   0.85   0.22   0.23          5.93
                            (0.69)    (0.67)   (0.27) (0.33) (0.13) (0.16)        (0.91)

            ⌘1               21.06   23.72   3.98   5.49   -0.72 -0.64   31.50
                            (13.58) (12.79) (2.08) (2.07) (0.69) (0.81) (15.57)

            ⌘2                        29.95              5.62             0.29
                                      (6.54)            (2.15)           (0.67)

            Constant         -0.01     -0.01    0.00   0.00   -0.00 -0.00          -0.01
                            (0.01)    (0.01)   (0.00) (0.00) (0.00) (0.00)        (0.01)
            Observations      104       104     104    104     104   104            104
            R2              0.436     0.515                                       0.279




                                                 31
Figure 4: Estimates of the aggregate multiplier M = ⇣1 by horizon. The figure plots the multi-
period impact of demand shocks: a demand shock of ft at date t increases the (log) price of equities
from t 1 to t + h by M ft . We use the GIV for instrumentation, see (43). The horizontal axis
indicates the horizon in quarters, from zero (that is, the current) to four quarters. Standard errors
are adjusted for autocorrelation. The sample is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.

                          20


                          15



                     Multiplier

                     5        10



                          0



                          −5
                                   −1         0                 1              2            3        4
                                                               Horizon (quarters)

                                                  Multiplier               95%−confidence interval




The impact of flows at longer horizons In Figure 4, we explore how demand and flow shocks
propagate across time. To this end, we extend the earlier analysis by estimating
                                   pt+h   pt 1 = ah + Mh Zt + ch ⌘tP C,e + dh yt + ✏t+h ,                (43)
for h = 0, 1, . . . , 4 quarters, where pt+h pt 1 is the (h + 1) quarter (geometric) return on the
aggregate stock market. Recall that ⌘tP C,e is the principal component, extracted in the third step
of the GIV procedure as outlined in Section B.2. The figure reports Mh at a certain horizon. We
also consider a regression where we replace the left-hand side by pt 1 pt 2 , which we refer to as
h = 1. To construct the confidence intervals, we account for the autocorrelation in the residuals
due to overlapping data.
    We find that the cumulative impact is fairly stable over time. This is intuitive as sharp reversals
would imply a strong negative autocorrelation in returns, which is not something that we observe
for the aggregate stock market at a quarterly frequency. As such, and consistent with the theory,
persistent flow shocks lead to persistent deviations in prices. Size-weighted sector-specific demand
shocks are also not correlated with returns at t 1 (that is, h = 1). Unfortunately, however, the
confidence interval widens quite rapidly with the horizon, which limits what we can say about the
long-run multiplier.

Robustness We explore the robustness of our estimates along various dimensions. In the interest
of space, we report and discuss the tables in Appendix D.4. In Tables D.8–D.10, we consider a
variety of robustness checks related to the sample period, data construction, and implementation
choices of the GIV estimator. We conclude that our results are robust to these changes in the
empirical strategy with multiplier estimates ranging from 3.5 to 8.

                                                                   32
4.4     A new measure of capital flows into the stock market
In this final section, we construct a new measure of capital flows into the stock market consistent
with the theory in Section 3. While our theory provides conceptual clarity in terms of how to
measure flows into the market, and to get around the problem that “for every buyer there is a
seller,” the data required are unfortunately not available for all investors.
    In Section 4.4, we propose a way to construct an empirical counterpart to the measure based
on the available data. As this measure is new to the literature, we show its connection to prices,
macroeconomic variables, and beliefs. The results in this section provide an initial analysis of the
potential determinants of flows into the aggregate stock market. These results are intentionally
descriptive in nature and understanding the primitive drivers of these flows is an important task
for future research.

Measuring flows into the stock market We rely on the FoF data for these calculations and
we refer to Appendix C for details on the data construction of the fixed income positions and flows.
As (10) shows, the flow into the aggregate stock market can be measured by first computing the
flow for each investor, fit = Wi,tFit1 , and then computing the equity weighted average, fSt =
P ✓i,t 1 Wi,t 1
   i
     P                 fit . Unfortunately, the FoF aggregates data across many institutions and the
       i ✓i,t 1 Wi,t 1
reported flows can be mismeasured by this definition. To see this, consider the case in which some
households only invest in bonds and other households only invest in equities. If we view this as a
combined household, a 1% combined inflow into financial markets does not necessarily lead to a 1%
increase in equity holdings as the flow may be a flow to bond funds only. With disaggregated data,
such problems can be solved, but such data are unfortunately unavailable.
     We propose a simple diagnostic to assess whether flows are measured accurately. In particular,
in our model, the elasticity of demand to flows equals one, see (7). We therefore estimate

                                      qit = ↵ +    i fit +   i   pt + i yt + ✏it .                               (44)

We report the estimates of j in Table D.13 in Appendix D. When we cannot reject H0 : i = 1
at the 5% significance level, we use the total flow. If this null hypothesis is rejected, we use the
equityPflow instead. We refer to these “screened flows” as fit⇤ . The aggregate flow is then given by
 ⇤
fSt = i Si,t 1 fit⇤ + fCt , where fCt corresponds to net repurchases of equities by firms.

The correlation between capital flows and equity returns We relate our measure of capital
flows into the stock market to returns. In the left panel of Figure 5, we show that our measure
of flows is strongly correlated with returns using a binned scatter plot in the left panel. We again
find that the slope is high, but we emphasize that, because of endogeneity, the slope is not a good
measure of the impact of flows of the price. This is why earlier we developed an IV strategy to
measure that impact.52
    We can also illustrate the strong co-movement between flows and prices at lower frequencies.
In particular, we construct a cumulative (log) return index and compute cumulative flows. We
then extract the cyclical component using the methodology developed in Hamilton (2018). We
standardize both measures, by removing the time-series mean and dividing them by their standard
  52
    If one has data on capital flows for a substantial number of sectors, then it would be possible to construct a GIV
estimate based on capital flows alone. This would make it possible to estimate the causal impact of prices on capital
flows and of capital flows on prices.


                                                         33
Figure 5: Capital flows into the stock market and price changes.
                                                              PN        We plot the aggregate flow
into the stock market, using the screened flows, fjt , fSt = j=0 Sj fjt⇤ , versus the return on the
                                                    ⇤    ⇤

aggregate stock market in the left panel used a binned scatter plot. In the right panel, we construct
a cumulative (log) return index and compute cumulative flows. We extract the cyclical component
using the methodology developed in Hamilton (2018). In the right panel, we standardize both
measures over the full sample to be able to plot them in the same figure so that they have mean 0
and standard deviation 1. The sample for both panels is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.

                                                          4
           .2



                                                          2
           .1


                                                          0
        Return
          0

                                                          −2
           −.1


                                                          −4
                                                           1995q1   2000q1     2005q1          2010q1       2015q1   2020q1
           −.2                                                                          Date
                 −.005   0          .005       .01
                             Flow                                            Cycle flows            Cycle prices




deviations, over the full sample to be able to plot them in the same figure. These are shown in
the right panel of Figure 5. Consistent with the high-frequency co-movement that we uncover in
the left panel of Figure 5, we find that prices and flows co-move at a business cycle frequency. We
re-emphasize once again that these are merely correlations and it may be the case, for example,
that they reflect positive feedback trading by investors (Cutler et al. (1990), Shleifer (2000)).

Relating flows to shocks to GDP and to return expectations To conclude this initial
exploration of capital flows into equity markets, we relate flows to shocks to economic activity and
survey expectations of returns. We use GDP growth as our measure of economic activity, as before.
For return expectations, we use the survey from Gallup. The data are described in more detail
in Appendix C. Gallup has several missing observations and only starts in 1996.Q4. We only use
data for all series when they are non-missing, which gives us 79 quarterly observations. To obtain
innovations, we estimate an AR(1) model for each of the series (except returns). We standardize
each of the innovation series, by removing the time-series mean and dividing them by their standard
deviations, to simplify the interpretations of the regressions.
    The results are presented in Table 4. In the first three columns, we relate capital flows to
survey expectations and economic growth. We find that flows and survey expectations are strongly
correlated, confirming Greenwood and Shleifer (2014) using a more comprehensive measure of capital
flows. A one standard deviation increase in survey expectations of future returns is associated with
a 0.48 standard deviation increase in capital flows.
    This finding may point to a resolution of a recent challenge posed to the beliefs literature by
Giglio et al. (2021a). In particular, they find that although survey expectations of returns are
volatile, the pass-through to actions (that is, portfolio rebalancing) is low. One possibility is that
the strong correlation between innovations to beliefs and prices (which equals 61% in our sample)
arises even though the pass-through is low, but small flows into inelastic markets lead to large price


                                                     34
Table 4: Descriptive statistics on capital flows, survey expectations of beliefs, economic activity,
and stock returns. The table reports the time-series regressions of innovations to flows in the first
three columns on innovations to survey expectations of returns (column 1), GDP growth innovations
(column 2), and both variables combined (column 3). We estimate the innovations in all cases by
estimating an AR(1) model, and normalize them to have unit standard deviation. Then we regress
returns on flow innovations (column 4), innovations to survey expectations of returns (column 5),
GDP growth innovations (column 6), and all three variables combined (column 7). The sample is
from 1997.Q1 to 2018.Q4, with some gaps, due to missing data for the Gallup survey.

                            Flow    Flow     Flow Return Return Return Return
           Gallup           0.48             0.46         0.61          0.33
                           (0.10)           (0.11)       (0.09)        (0.09)

           GDP growth                0.21   0.06                          0.41     0.21
                                    (0.11) (0.11)                        (0.10)   (0.08)

           Flow                                        0.65                        0.45
                                                      (0.09)                      (0.09)

           Constant         0.00   0.00   0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
                           (0.10) (0.11) (0.10)       (0.09)   (0.09)    (0.10)   (0.07)
           Observations      79     79     79           79       79        79       79
           R2              0.233 0.046 0.237          0.426    0.376     0.171    0.582


eﬀects.
    Flows and economic activity, as analyzed in the second column, are also positively correlated,
but the relation is substantially weaker. In the third column, we combine survey expectations and
economic activity, and find that the latter is insignificant. In the remaining columns, we study the
association between returns and flows, beliefs, and economic activity. A one standard deviation
increase in capital flows is associated with a 0.65 standard deviation increase in returns, which
is similar to a 0.61 standard increase in case of survey expectations. The link to GDP growth is
significant, but weaker with a slope coeﬃcient of 0.41. In the final column, we combine all flows,
beliefs, and GDP growth and find that even in this multiple regression, all variables are significant.
The R-squared of this final regression is high and amounts to R2 = 58%.
    Obviously, this analysis is just an initial exploration into the determinants of flows, and more
disaggregated data may be used to explore the determinants of capital flows for various institutions
and across households. If the inelastic markets hypothesis holds, this is an important area for future
research.


5    General Equilibrium with Inelastic Markets
So far, we took both the risk-free rate rf and the average equity premium ⇡
                                                                          ¯ as exogenous. We now
endogenize them. For instance, we shall see how flows from bonds to stocks, which alter the price
of stocks, can at the same time keep the risk-free rate constant (in our model, this is because the
optimizing household also trades oﬀ saving in bonds versus consumption, and this way ensures that


                                                 35
the consumption-based Euler equation for bonds holds). We view this as a prototype for how to
build general equilibrium models with inelastic markets, merging behavioral disturbances, the flows
they create, their impact on prices, and potentially their impact on production.

5.1     Setup
For simplicity, we discuss in detail an endowment economy. It will be easy to then generalize the
model to a production economy. This general equilibrium model is a specialization of our infinite-
horizon model of Section 3.2 – it specifies things left general in that model, such as the origin of
the interest rate.
    The endowment Yt follows a proportional growth process, withPan i.i.d. lognormal growth rate
                        y 1 2                                                                         1
Gt : YYt t 1 = Gt = eg+"t 2 y , with "yt+1 ⇠ N 0, y2 . Utility is         t
                                                                             t
                                                                               u (Ct ) with u (C) = C1 .
Because empirically dividend growth and GDP growth are not very correlated, we model that GDP
Yt is divided as Yt = Dt + ⌦t into an aggregate dividend Dt and a residual ⌦t , where the dividend
                                                            1 2
                                                       g+"D
stream has i.i.d. lognormal growth, DDt t 1 = GDt = e
                                                          t 2 D , so that the balanced growth path


specified in Section 3.2 has a cumulative growth factor Gt = GD   t . . . G1 . The “residual” ⌦t can be
                                                                            D

thought of as a combination of wages, entrepreneurial income, and so forth (and indeed it is the
vast majority of GDP).53 The representative firm raises capital entirely through equity, and passes
the endowment stream as a per-share dividend Dt = DQt , where Q is the number of shares of equities
supplied by the corporate sector, which is an unimportant constant in this baseline model without
share buybacks and issuances. Bonds are in zero net supply.54 We write the price of equities as
Pt = Dt ept , where is the average dividend-price ratio and pt is the deviation of the price from the
baseline pt = 0. Those quantities are all endogenous.
    There are two funds: a pure bond fund, which just holds bonds, and the representative mixed
fund, which holds bonds and equities. The mixed fund has a mandate, to hold a fraction in equities
equal to:
                                  ✓t = ✓ exp D pt + Et [ pt+1 ] ,                                  (45)
which is the same as before in (1), to the leading order (in terms of deviations from the steady
state), with D =  . The formulation here is slightly more general.55

Consumption and investment by households We describe the behavior of the representative
household. Section G.8 provides more formalism and further details. The dynamic budget constraint
of household h entails:56
                                                               QB,h
                              QB,h
                                t  + D h
                                       t + ⌦ h
                                             t = C h
                                                   t +  F t
                                                           h
                                                             +  t+1
                                                                    .                        (46)
                                                               Rf,t
Indeed, the left-hand side is the bond asset position of the household at the beginning of period t:
QB,h
  t  gives the bond holdings at the beginning of period t, while Dth and ⌦ht are the dividend and
  53
     Formally, it could become negative, as in Campbell and Cochrane (1999), though this is a very low probability
event in our calibration. Then, the interpretation is that of a residual liability. In addition, it would be easy to keep
Dt /Yt stationary, at the cost of having it as one more state variable, reverting to its mean.
  54
     We can easily have the government issue bonds, backed by taxation, see Section G.8.1.
  55
     But here we allow the mandate to potentially diﬀerentiate between “return predictability coming from the price-
dividend ratio” (captured by D pt ) and “return predictability because the price is predictable”. In a number of
settings the first one (the “carry”) is stronger than the last one (Koijen et al. (2018)), so having two ’s is sensible.
  56
     There is also the usual transversality condition, limt!1 t Cth        QB,h
                                                                            t    = 0.


                                                           36
residual income received by the household in its pure bond fund (which includes the “dividends”
paid by the mixed fund). This bond position is spent on consumption Cth , flows Fth into the mixed
fund, and investment in bonds, with a face value QB,h t+1 .
    We need a behavioral element, otherwise the investor would fully undo the funds’ mandate. We
choose to decompose the household as a rational consumer, who only decides on consumption (so
dissaving from the pure bond fund), and a behavioral investor, who trades between the pure bond
fund and the mixed fund.
    The rational consumer part of the household chooses consumption (but not equity shares) to
maximize lifetime utility, subject to the dynamic budget constraint for bonds (46). She takes the
actions of the investor as given.57 As she is rational, she satisfies the Euler equation for bonds:
                                        " ✓        ◆        #
                                              Ct+1
                                     Et                 Rf t = 1,                                 (47)
                                               Ct

with Ct = Yt in equilibrium. This pins down the interest rate Rf t , which is constant in our i.i.d.
growth economy.
    The behavioral investor part of the household is influenced by bt , a behavioral disturbance. It
is a simple stand-in for noise in institutions, beliefs, tastes, fears, and so on. We assume that the
investor trades (between stocks and bonds) with a form of “narrow framing” objective function (as
                                                                                        1
in Barberis et al. (2006)). He seeks to maximize Et [V p (Wt+1 )] with V p (W ) = W 1 1 a proxy
value function. Specifically, when bt = 0, he chooses his allocation ✓¯M in the mixed fund as:
                                       ⇥                                        ⇤
                      ✓¯M = argmax E V p 1 ✓M Rf t + ✓M RM,t+1 |bt = 0 ,                         (48)
                                    ✓M

where RM,t+1 is the stochastic rate of return of the mixed fund. This choice of a “narrow framing”
benchmark is opposed to the fully rational value function, which would have all the Merton-style
hedging demand terms, and would lead to the consumption CAPM holding on average: in particular,
                                                                                                     y
the equity premium would be too small, as in the equity premium puzzle (at ⇡       ¯ = cov "D  t , "t ).
Instead, the above formulation with narrow framing will lead to a high equity premium ⇡      ¯ = r2 ,
where the r2 is the volatility of the stock market, which is aﬀected by flow shocks.58
    If there are no behavioral disturbances, an investor wishing to maintain a constant allocation ✓¯M
in the mixed fund should invest via F̄t = 1 ✓ ✓ P̄t P̄0 Q̄, as in Section 3.2, that is, F̄t = 1✓ ✓ Dt .
We assume that his policy, however, is aﬀected by the behavioral disturbance bt , so that the actual
flow is
                                           1 ✓           1
                                      Ft =         Dt +     (bt Dt ) ,                              (49)
                                             ✓
which is higher than the baseline amount F̄t by a fraction bt of the “fundamental value” Dt of
the equity market. Here we will specify that bt is an AR(1).
    In Appendix G.9, we provide a formal microfoundation of flows via beliefs: the financier part of
the household believes that the deviation of the equity premium from trend is ⇡     ˆtH . Under simple
conditions, this leads to a flow
                                              ft = H ⇡
                                                      ˆtH ,                                         (50)
  57
     One could imagine a variant, where the consumer manipulates the investor’s actions. This would lead her to
distort her Euler equation for consumption.
  58
     This choice of “narrow framing” leads to a high equity premium. It could be replaced by another device such as
disasters. We choose here narrow framing as this behavioral ingredient is well in the behavioral spirit of this section.


                                                          37
with H the sensitivity to the risk premium, and to a behavioral deviation bt = f✓t . Using the
empirical findings of Giglio et al. (2021a), we estimate that H ' 2, a value that we rationalize by
calibrating it in terms of other behavioral parameters. This estimate is in contrast with a rational
model, which would imply H = ⇡1¯ ' 22, a very large pass-through from beliefs to portfolio shares.
A low value of H means that people have “bold forecasts” (excess variations in the perceived equity
premium) but make “timid choices” (small flows), very much as in Kahneman and Lovallo (1993).59
     This type of model can be also made to match the perspective in Bordalo et al. (2020), in which
all variation in prices, flows, and the perceived risk premium ⇡  ˆtH comes from changes in the long-
term growth forecast gt (all in deviations from a trend), in a way still governed by (50): Section G.9
provides details and a calibration. One could image a richer model for the perceived risk premium
ˆtH , e.g. with extrapolative beliefs based on realized returns or growth rates. One could then work
⇡
out the implications for flows (via (50)) and prices (via Proposition (5)).
     We conclude that linking flows to beliefs is a promising and manageable line of research, and
the analytics that we provide in this section and in Appendix G.9 help thinking about this. At the
same time, there may be other determinants of flows, for instance binding risk constraints, changes
in regulation or policy, and reaction to fairly irrelevant news, which is why we find it useful to
separate the impact of the behavioral deviation bt from its determinants.
     We finally formally define the equilibrium.
Definition 1. The state vector is Zt = (Yt , Dt , Dt 1 , bt ) . An equilibrium comprises the following
functions: the stock price P (Z), the interest rate Rf (Z), and the consumption and asset allocation
C (Z), B (Z), such that the mixed fund’s allocation ✓ (P, Z) follows its mandate, and: (i) the
consumer follows the consumption policy C (Z), which maximizes utility subject to the above
constraints; (ii) the investor follows the behavioral policy (49), where the average allocation in the
mixed fund is given by (48), so that it is quasi-rational with narrow framing on average, but with
disturbance bt ; (iii) the mixed fund’s demand for stocks Q (Z) follows its mandate (45); (iv) the
consumption market clears, C (Z) = Y (Z); and (v) the equity market clears, Q (Z) = Q.

5.2     Model solution
Proposition 6 describes the solution of this economy. In particular, it shows that the link between
the disturbance bt and the cumulative flow ft is as follows. Starting from an equilibrium situation,
where b0 = 0, the cumulative “excess” flow is equal to:

                                                     ft = ✓bt .                                              (51)

This holds for any process bt . Now, we specialize to the case where bt follows an AR(1) with speed of
mean-reversion f . Then, so does ft , so that we are in the “simple benchmark” case of (25)-(26), and
now with an endogenous interest rate and unconditional equity premium. This AR(1) assumption is
just a placeholder for richer behavioral assumptions, for example driven by time-varying beliefs (as
in Caballero and Simsek (2019), Bordalo et al. (2020)), positive or negative feedback trading rules,
and so on. We defer to future research for richer, empirically-grounded models of the “behavioral
deviation” bt , and hence of the flows. The limited goal of this framework is to have a simple model
of the impact of the flows in general equilibrium, which can be fully solved and which lends itself
to a number of variants. Importantly, it relies on observable flows.
  59
    Quantitatively, to match the calibrated volatility of flows of   f   = 2.8% (as in Table 6) we need a moderate
variation of beliefs ⇡H = 1.4%.


                                                        38
Proposition 6. The solution of the economy obtains in closed form as follows, taking the limit of
small time intervals and only the first order terms in ft . The market elasticity ⇣ and the “macro
market eﬀective discount rate” ⇢ (see Proposition 5) are:
                                                                         ⇣
                                       ⇣=1        ✓ + D ,         ⇢=      .                      (52)
                                                                         
The price of equities is:
                                                          Dt pt
                                                 Pt =       e ,                                   (53)
where Dt is the dividend, = rf + ⇡  ¯ g is the average dividend-price ratio, and pt is the deviation
of the price from its rational average, which increases with flows:
                                                                     1
                                      pt = bpf ft ,       bpf =          .                        (54)
                                                                  ⇣ + f
Hence the variance of stock market returns is
                                                      ⇣              ⌘
                                                                 p f
                                           2
                                           r = var        "D
                                                           t + b f t ,
                                                                  "                               (55)
                                                            f
and depends on both fundamental risk ( "D
                                        t ) and flow risk ("t ). Both contribute to the average equity
premium, which is:
                                             ¯ = r2 .
                                             ⇡                                                    (56)
The equity premium at time t is lower than its average when flows have been high, as:
                                                                                p
                                      ¯ + b⇡f ft ,
                                 ⇡t = ⇡                   b⇡f =     ( +    f ) bf .               (57)

Finally, the interest rate is constant, and given by the consumption Euler equation (47):
                                                                               2
                                                                               y
                                    rf =     ln + g               ( + 1)           .              (58)
                                                                           2
   Hence, we have a fairly traditional economy, except that, crucially, prices and risk premia are
now driven by flows and flow risk, in addition to fundamentals, and that markets are inelastic.
Hence, the equity premium is time-varying (because of flows), and on average higher than in the
consumption CAPM (because it reacts to flow risk, not just fundamental risk, and because the nar-
row framing makes the investor react to the variance of equity returns, rather than their covariance
with consumption), as given in (56).

5.3    Pricing kernel consistent with flow-based pricing
We show how to express the economics of flows in inelastic markets in the language of pricing
kernels or stochastic discount factors (SDFs). To do so, we use a simple general method to complete
a “default” pricing kernel so that it reflects the impact of flows on asset prices. The idea is simply
that there is a fringe of infinitesimal traders that can absorb any infinitesimal amount of new
assets. That gives rise to a “flow-based” pricing kernel (see Section G.10 for details). In our general
equilibrium model, this SDF is:
                                                   "D
                            Mt+1 = exp( rf       ⇡t t+1
                                                     2
                                                        + ⇠t ),               ¯ + b⇡f ft ,
                                                                         ⇡t = ⇡                   (59)
                                                      D

                                                        39
where D  2
            = var "Dt+1 and ⇠t is a deterministic term ensuring that Et [Mt+1 ] e
                                                                                     rf
                                                                                        = 1, so that
         2
        ⇡t
⇠t = 2 2 if "t+1 is Gaussian.
              D
         D
    This “flow-based” pricing kernel is an alternative to the consumption-based kernel of Lucas
(1978). The core economics is in how flows aﬀect prices, and the pricing kernel (59) just reflects
that. The flow ft modifies the price Pt according to Proposition 6 and also the pricing kernel Mt+1 ,
in such a way that Pt = Et [Mt+1 (Dt+1 + Pt+1 )] holds. The pricing kernel is in a sense a symptom
rather than a cause in that market.
    To sum up, the flow-based SDF (59) reacts to flows, and prices equities and bonds:
                                Et [Mt+1 RM,t+1 ] = 1,         Et [Mt+1 Rf t ] = 1.
However, in this model, consumption does not directly price equities, though it does price bonds:
                         ✓      ◆                        ✓      ◆
                           Ct+1                            Ct+1
                   Et [           RM,t+1 ] 6= 1,    Et [             Rf t ] = 1.
                            Ct                              Ct

5.4     Calibration of the general equilibrium model
We now calibrate the general equilibrium model. This extends the calibration of Section 3.2, which
is natural as the general equilibrium model is an extension of the basic infinite horizon model. We
use the parameter values given in Table 5, which are all presented in annualized terms for clarity.
We provide a summary discussion of our parameter choices here, leaving some details to Section H.
Risk aversion is moderate, at = 2. The macroeconomic parameter values are standard, except for
the pure rate of time preference.60 We set a speed of mean reversion of the behavioral disturbance
of b = 4%/year, which induces the same speed of mean reversion for flows ft and for the P/D
ratio. Likewise, we choose its standard deviation to generate the requisite volatility of flows. For
parsimony, we assume zero correlation between flow shocks and dividend shocks.
    Table 6 shows the resulting moments implied by the model. It verifies that we match all the
“classic” moments, for instance the risk-free rate, the average equity premium, and the volatility of
stock returns. We see that the model features a large “excess volatility”: the flow shocks (with their
2.8% annual standard deviation) account for almost 90% of the variance of stock returns. It may
be surprising that we can match the equity premium without any of the “modern” asset pricing
ingredients, such as a very high risk aversion or disaster risk. The reason is that the preferences of
our behavioral investors feature “narrow framing”, which leads to an average risk premium given by
¯ = r2 .
⇡
    Table 7 shows more moments specific to the stock market. We broadly match the volatility of
the log P/D ratio, its speed of mean reversion, and the predictive power of forecasting regressions
with that P/D ratio.
    We conclude that our general equilibrium model featuring inelastic markets is competitive with
other widely-used general equilibrium models that match equity market moments. Its main advan-
tages, as we see it, are that it relies on an observable force, flows in and out of equities and that it
  60
     To get a small risk-free rate of 1% (and only for this reason), we need to make the agents very patient, so that
   > 1. Indeed, this comes from the Ramsey equation (58), which is rf ' ln + g (neglecting precautionary
eﬀects, which are very small in our calibration) with g = 4%. We share this issue with the overwhelming majority
of the macroeconomics literature: if we normalized the average growth rate to zero, like most of the macroeconomics
literature, we would not have this diﬃculty. It would be easy to amend that, for example by adding a small probability
of a disaster risk or by using Epstein-Zin preferences. We do not do that, because we do not wish to complicate the
model.


                                                         40
             Table 5: Parameter values used in the calibration

    Variable                                                 Value
    Growth rate of endowment and dividend                    g = 2%
    Std. dev. of endowment growth                             y = 0.8%
    Std. dev. of dividend growth                              D = 5%
    Mixed fund’s equity share                                ✓ = 87.5%
    Mixed fund’s sensitivity to risk premium                 =1
    Speed of mean-reversion rate of behavioral disturbance    b = 4%
    Std. dev. of innovations to behavioral disturbance        b = 3.3%
    Time preference                                            = 1.03
    Risk aversion                                              =2
                        Notes. Values are annualized.




              Table 6: Moments generated by the calibration

Variable                                                 Value
Macro elasticity                                         ⇣ = 0.16
Macro elasticity with mean-reverting flow                ⇣ M = ⇣ +  f = 0.2
Macro market eﬀective discount factor, ⇢ = ⇣/           ⇢ = 16%
Risk free rate                                           rf = 1%
Average equity premium                                   ⇡
                                                         ¯ = 4.4%
Average dividend-price ratio                                = 3.4%
Std. dev. of stock returns                                 r = 15%
Share of variance of stock returns due to flows          89%
Share of variance of stock returns due to fundamentals   11%
Mean reversion rate of cumulative flow and log D/P         f = 4%
Std. dev. of innovation to cumulative flow                 f = 2.8%
Slope of log price deviation to flow                     bpf = 5
Slope of equity premium to flow                          b⇡f = 0.37
                        Notes. Values are annualized.




                                     41
                     Table 7: Some stock market moments and predictive regressions
                                          (a) Stock market moments
                                                                        Data Model
                              Std. dev. of excess stock returns         0.17 0.15
                              Mean P/D                                  37   33
                              Std. dev. of log P/D                      0.42 0.5


                                           (b) Predictive regressions
                               Data                                Model
           Horizon    Slope    S.E.      R2
                                                Mean of slope 95% CI of slope S.E.              R2
           1 yr       0.11     (0.034)   0.07   0.14          [0.04, 0.32]    (0.048)           0.09
           4 yr       0.36     (0.14)    0.18   0.61          [0.18, 1.19]    (0.17)            0.28
           8 yr       1.00     (0.34)    0.40   1.34          [0.39, 2.50]    (0.31)            0.43

Notes. The data are for the United States for 1947-2018, and are calculated based on the CRSP
value-weighted index. The predictive regressions for the expected stock return in panel (b) are
Rt!t+T = ↵T + T ln D  Pt , at horizon T (annual frequency). S.E. denotes the Newey-West standard errors
                       t

with 8 lags. 95% CI denotes the 95% confidence interval of the estimated coeﬃcients on the simulated
data. Each run in the simulation uses 72 years.



matches our evidence on the macro elasticity of the market. Also, it retains the CRRA structure, so
it is easier to mesh with the basic macro models. Hence, it might be a useful prototype highlighting
how to think about inelastic market in general equilibrium.


6        Government Policy and Corporate Finance in Inelastic Mar-
         kets
We now examine how a number of issues in finance change when markets are inelastic: government
and corporate policies. Many readers may wish to skip to the conclusion, but in our experience a
good fraction of readers will be interested in these topics.

6.1      Governments might stabilize the stock market via quantitative easing
         in equities
In inelastic markets, the government might prop up asset values, perhaps in times of crisis, or to
help firms invest by raising equity at a high price. Indeed, suppose that the government buys f G
                                                                                            G
percent of the market, and keeps it forever. Then, the market’s valuation increases by p = f⇣ .61 So,
    61
    Note that we assume that investors do not change their holdings to counteract the government’s holdings,
meaning that Ricardian equivalence does not hold, perhaps because of a form of inattention to the government’s
actions (Gabaix (2020)).



                                                      42
if the government buys 1% of the market (which may represent roughly 1% of GDP), the market
goes up by 5%.62
    This is what a number of central banks have done. In August 1998, the Hong Kong government,
when it was under a speculative attack, bought 6% of the Hong Kong stock market: this resulted in a
24% abnormal return, which was not reversed in the following eight weeks (Bhanot and Kadapakkam
(2006)). This eﬀect is not entirely well-identified, but is consistent with a large price impact
multiplier ⇣1 , around 4. Likewise, the Bank of Japan owned 5% of the Japanese stock market in
March 2018 (Charoenwong et al. (2020)) and the Chinese “national team” (a government outfit)
owned a similar 5% of Chinese stocks in early 2020.63 In inelastic markets, this may have a large
price impact.64 Those government purchases of equities oﬀer a potentially attractive government
policy, as they increase market values and lower the cost of capital for firms, and relax credit
constraints. So, they might increase hiring and real investments by firms, and GDP. We think this
is an interesting direction for future research.65

6.2     Corporate finance in inelastic markets
Imagine that firms (the aggregate corporate sector) buy back shares in one period, reducing divi-
dends and hence keeping total payouts constant. What happens?
    In a frictionless model, this does not aﬀect the firms’ values, as per Modigliani-Miller. In an
inelastic model, it should now be clear that buybacks can increase the aggregate value of equities.
How much depends on the rationality of households, as we now detail. For clarity and brevity,
we focus on the two-period model (the same economics holds with an infinite horizon, but the
expressions are more complicated; see Section G.11). At time 0, we imagine the representative firm
buys back a fraction b of the equity shares, where b is small (so that the new number of shares is
Q00 = (1 b) Q0 ). The buyback is financed by a fall in the time-0 dividend, so the total dividend
payout falls from D0 to D00 = D0 P0 Q0 b, where P0 is the ex-dividend price, and P0 Q0 b is used to
finance the share buyback.
    We need to take a stance on the households’ reaction to those buybacks. Call µD (respectively
µG ) the fraction of the change in dividends (respectively, of the change in capital gain) that is
“absorbed” by the households – that is, consumed or reinvested in the pure bond fund. If the extra
dividend (respectively extra capital gain) is X dollars, consumers will “remove from the mixed fund”
µD X (respectively µG X) dollars. As households’ marginal propensity to consume is higher after a $1
dividend rather than a $1 capital gain (Baker et al. (2007)), it is likely that 0 < µG < µD < 1. We do
not seek here to endogenize µD and µG , which would be a good application of limited attention. We
simply trace their implications for the price impact of share buybacks in the following proposition
(which is proved in Section F).
Proposition 7. (Impact of share buybacks in a two-period model) Suppose that, at time 0, corpo-
rations buy back a fraction b of shares, lowering their dividend payments by the corresponding dollar
                                                                     ⇣             ⌘ G
  62                                                                                f
     If the government buys it for just T periods, the impact is p = 1 (1+⇢)   1
                                                                                 T   ⇣ . Set ft = f 10t<T in (20).
                                                                                                   G

With the above calibration, this can be a moderate dampening if T is large enough.
  63
     Lockett, Hudson. “How the invisible hand of the state works in Chinese stocks.” Financial Times, 2/4/2020.
  64
     We are not aware of a quantification of the macro elasticity for Japan. Barbon and Gianinazzi (2019) and
Charoenwong et al. (2020) quantity a micro elasticity – the diﬀerential impact on individual stocks that are owned
versus not owned by the government.
  65
     Brunnermeier et al. (2020) caution about potentially adverse eﬀect if the government’s purchases might become
too central.


                                                        43
amount, hence keeping total payout constant at time 0. Then, the aggregate value of equities moves
by a fraction

                                               µD µG ✓
                                         v=              b,                                       (60)
                                                ⇣ + µG ✓
where µD (respectively µG ) is the fraction of the change in dividends (respectively change in capital
gains) “absorbed” by households, i.e. removed from the mixed fund. If µD > µG (so that the marginal
propensity to consume out of dividends is higher than that out of capital gains), then share buybacks
increase the aggregate market value: v > 0.

    A provisional calibration Using the estimates of Di Maggio et al. (2020b), we set µD '
0.5 and µG ' 0.03. Then, (60) says that a buyback of 1% of the market increases the market
capitalization by 2.2%. The above papers (Baker et al. (2007); Di Maggio et al. (2020b)) do not
exactly measure µD and µG : they measure the impact on consumption, not on consumption plus
reallocation to pure bond funds. It is conceivable that some of the capital gains or dividends are
reinvested in bonds, even if they’re not consumed. So, µD (respectively µG ) is likely to be higher
than the marginal propensity to consume out of dividends (respectively capital gains). In addition,
what matters is the “long run” propensity, which is hard to measure, and one may conjecture that
the long-run consumption adjustment to a lasting policy change will have µD µG closer to 0.
One upshot is that it would be interesting for the empirical literature to estimate the long-run µD
and µG , as it is important to understand the impact of firms’ actions such as buybacks in inelastic
markets.


7    Conclusion
This paper finds, both theoretically and empirically, that the aggregate stock market is surprisingly
price-inelastic, so that flows in and out of the market have a significant impact on prices and risk
premia. We refer to this as the inelastic markets hypothesis. We provide tools to analyze inelastic
markets, with a simple model featuring key elasticities and an identification strategy using the
recently developed method of granular instrumental variables, conceived for this project and laid
out in detail in Gabaix and Koijen (2020).
    We emphasize though that the “inelastic market hypothesis” remains just that: a hypothesis.
Our empirical analysis relies on a new empirical methodology and on fairly unexplored data in this
context. An important takeaway from this paper is that the demand elasticity of the aggregate
stock market is a key parameter of interest in asset pricing and macro-finance, just like investors’
risk aversion, their elasticity of inter-temporal substitution, and the micro elasticity of demand. We
provide a first estimate, and we hope that future research will explore other identification strategies
to improve and sharpen this estimate.
    If the inelastic markets hypothesis is correct, it invalidates or qualifies a number of common
views in finance and it provides new directions to answer longstanding questions in finance. We
outline and then discuss those tenets.

How tenets of finance change if the inelastic markets hypothesis is correct
  “Permanent price impact must reflect information.” In Proposition 5, a one-time, non mean-
reverting inflow permanently changes prices (as in p = f⇣ ), even if it contains no information

                                                  44
whatsoever. This is because a permanent change in the demand for equities must permanently
change their equilibrium prices – and this eﬀect is quantitatively important in inelastic markets.
The typical empirical strategy to look for reversals as signs of flows (rather than information) moving
prices does not work in this case. By the same logic, we can see large changes in prices but small
changes in long-horizon expected returns.
    “Fast and smart investors (perhaps hedge funds) will provide enough elasticity to the market.”
This is not true: in part because hedge funds are small (they own less than 5% of the market,
see Section 2), they cannot provide much elasticity for the market as a whole (so ⇣ remains low),
even though they might ensure short term news are incorporated quickly (so that  is quite high).
In addition, those smart-money investors often face risk constraints and outflows that limit their
ability to aggressively step in during aggregate downturns.
    “Trading volume is very high, so the equity market must be very elastic.” Trading volume in the
equity market is high (about 100% of the value of the market each year), but most of it exchanges
one share for another share (perhaps via a round-trip through cash). These trades within the
universe of equities do no count toward the aggregate flow f , which is a (signed) flow from bonds
to equities.
    “For every buyer there is a seller; so, saying ‘there was an increase in the demand for equities’
is meaningless.” Economists often appeal to the truism that “for every buyer there is a seller” to
disregard the notion that a measurable increase in the willingness of the average trader to buy
more of the market will push prices up (“buying pressure”). Our model clarifies that this reasoning
is incorrect. In Proposition 2, f is the pressure to buy stocks (if it is positive), and the demand
q = ⇣p + f has a component ⇣p expressing that “sellers” appetite to sell shares to “buyers”
represented by f . So there are both buyers and sellers (or really, a force making the representative
fund buy, and a force making it sell), but at the same time, buying pressure f does move the price
by p = f⇣ . Moreover, it is directly measurable via the change in asset holdings (bonds in the case of
the undergraduate example of Section 3.1), as in (10).
    “The market often looks impressively eﬃcient in the short run, so it must be quite macro-
eﬃcient.” The contrast between the market’s “short run eﬃciency” and “macro-eﬃciency” is sharp
in equation (20): future events are discounted at a rate ⇢ = ⇣ = + 1  ✓ , so that a highly far-
sighted market has a lower value of ⇢. So, the market can be very forward-looking (low ⇢), even if
it is very macro-inelastic (low ⇣), provided that “far-sightedness”  is relatively high compared to
⇣ (for example, because there are a few powerfully forward-looking arbitrageurs). As an example,
consider the announcement of an event that will take eﬀect in a week, such as a permanent increase
in dividends or inflows. In our calibration, the market’s current reaction to the announcement is a
fraction 99.8% of the eventual present value of the future dividends or inflows.66 In that sense, the
market looks impressively eﬃcient. But again, it is “short-term predictability eﬃcient” (it smooths
announcements) and “micro eﬃcient” (it processes well the relative valuations of stocks), but it is
not “macro eﬃcient” (as Samuelson (1998) put it) or “long-term predictability eﬃcient” – it does
not absorb well very persistent shocks. Furthermore, even though prices respond promptly around
major events, it is generally hard to assess whether the market moved by just the right amount,
or instead under- or over-reacted. In addition to a large literature demonstrating drifts in prices
before and after macro events (such as Federal Open Market Committee meetings), our model
implies that persistent flows around such events can lead to persistent deviations in prices, and
typical event study graphs that do not display much of a drift in prices following the event would
 66                     T
      Indeed, (1 + ⇢)       = 99.8%, taking the ⇢ calibrated in Section 3.2 and T = 1/52 years.


                                                             45
be uninformative about macro eﬃciency.
    “Share buybacks do not aﬀect equity returns, as proved by the Modigliani-Miller theorem.” In
the traditional frictionless model, the return impact of a share buyback should be zero. However,
in our model, if firms in the aggregate buy back $1 worth of equity, that can increase aggregate
valuations (Section 6.2 detailed this). Hence, share buybacks are potentially a source of fluctuations
in the market. In our model, a combination of fund mandates and consumers’ bounded rationality
leads to a violation of the Modigliani-Miller neutrality. More broadly, corporate actions such as
share issuances, transactions by insiders, et cetera, may have a large impact on prices beyond any
informational channel. Most extant empirical evidence focuses on announcements at the firm level,
while we emphasize their impact at the aggregate level. By focusing on well-identified firm-level
responses, one identifies the micro-elasticity, not the macro elasticity ⇣. It will be interesting to
explore in detail how important corporate decisions are for fluctuations in the aggregate stock
market.
    “Markets must be macro elastic as otherwise small flows would imply large price changes and
market timing strategies would be too profitable.” The Sharpe ratios of market timing strategies
depend on the properties of flows, see (23) and (24). If flows are highly persistent, prices may move
a lot, but the per-period expected excess returns do not change much. Indeed, in the model in
Section 5, the persistence of the dividend yield matches its empirical counterpart and using it for
market-timing purposes does not work well out of sample.
    We next discuss a few questions that seem important for future research.

Why is the aggregate demand for equities so inelastic? The core of the inelastic markets
hypothesis is that the macro demand elasticity ⇣ is low. Why is it so low? We highlighted two
reasons, namely fixed-share mandates (so that ⇣ > 0,  = 0), such as those of many funds that
are 100% in equities and hence have zero elasticity, and inertia (i.e., some funds or people are just
buy-and-hold, creating ⇣ =  = 0). This may be due to a taste for simplicity, or to agency frictions:
as the household is not sure about the quality of the manager, a simple scheme like a constant share
in equities may be sensible – otherwise the manager may take foolish risks.
    There are other possibilities. If some funds have a Value-at-Risk constraint, and volatility
goes up a lot in bad times, they need to sell when the markets fall, so that their ⇣ and  are
negative. A diﬀerent possibility is that when prices move, people’s subjective perception of the
equity premium does not move much. One reason might be that investors think the rest of the
market is well-informed. Also, going from market prices to the equity premium is a statistically
error-prone procedure, so that market participants may shrink towards no reaction to this (Black
(1986), Summers (1986)). Alternatively, many investors may not place much weight on the price-
earnings ratio as a reliable forecasting tool, perhaps because they want parsimonious models and
price-dividend ratios are not that useful as short-run forecasters, or because many investors just
do not wish to bother paying attention to them (Gabaix (2014), ?). The pass-through between
subjective beliefs and actions might be low, as it is for retail investors (Giglio et al. (2021a)).
Finally, demand may respond little to prices because demand shocks are highly persistent.67 In the
  67
                                                    P            ⇥     ⇤                          ⇥      ⇤
    For instance, imagine a very simple model ft = k Fk I t 2 ⌧k0 , ⌧k1 , where Fk is constant, ⌧k0 , ⌧k1 the period of
time that a flows stays in the market, and ⌧k1 ⌧k0 ⇠ exp ( ) . From an institutional perspective, one can also imagine
that a large asset manager launches a fund that attracts capital, and that this capital is sticky, but the period for
which it stays is unclear. If is low, then prices will respond sharply to the flow, even though the expected return
does not move much. Uncertainty about the persistence of the demand shock introduces uncertainty about how
the price change maps to expected returns, leading to a muted response and a low ⇣. This model is in quite sharp


                                                          46
end, while identifying the exact reasons for low market elasticity is interesting, this question has a
large number of plausible answers. Fortunately, it is possible to write a framework in a way that is
relatively independent to the exact source of low elasticity, and this is the path we chose.

What are the determinants of flows? It is clear that it would be desirable to know more
about the determinants of flows at a high frequency. We provided a minimalist model with a
“behavioral disturbance” (which was enough to study its general equilibrium impact), and some
simple correlations in Section 4.4, but this is clearly a first pass. Establishing the various channels
of flows could be a whole line of enquiry, perhaps with micro data such as those used by Calvet et
al. (2009) or Giglio et al. (2021a).
    To appreciate the richness of those determinants, let us observe that flow shocks could come from
various sources, such as: (i) changes in beliefs about future flows or fundamentals, as these both
aﬀect expected returns, per Proposition 5; (ii) “liquidity needs”, for instance insurance companies
selling stocks after a hurricane; (iii) more generally, heterogeneous income or wealth shocks to
diﬀerent groups (including foreign versus domestic investors) changing the eﬀective propensity to
invest in stocks by the average investor; (iv) corporate actions by firms such as decisions to buy
back or issue shares; (v) shocks to substitute assets, which might for example prompt investors to
rebalance towards stocks when bond yields go down; (vi) changes in the advertising or advice by
institutional advisers, as explored in Ben-David et al. (2020b); (vii) “road shows” in which firms
or governments try to convince potential investors to buy into a prospective equity oﬀering or
privatization; (viii) mechanical forced trading via “delta hedging,” whereby traders who have sold
put options and continuously hedge them need to sell stocks when stock prices fall.

Some further outstanding questions In addition to the two questions we just discussed, our
framework makes a number of further issues interesting and researchable. For example, how much
can and should governments intervene in equity markets? Do share buybacks account for a large
share of market fluctuations? How forward-looking are the policies of funds ()? Generalizing,
what are the cross-market elasticities, meaning the forces that create “contagion” across market?
These same eﬀects will also generalize to other markets (such as the markets for corporate bonds
and currencies): if so, how and what are the policy implications? This is a rich number of questions
that hopefully economists will be able to answer in the coming years.


A      Appendix: Main proofs
Proof of Proposition 2 At time 0 , before the inflow shocks, fund i’s wealth is W̄i = P̄ Q̄i + B̄,
where P̄ Q̄i and B̄i are respectively the fund’s holdings of equities and bonds:
                                    P̄ Q̄i = ✓i W̄i ,    B̄i = (1   ✓i ) W̄i .
At time 0, after the inflow shock, and the change in the equilibrium price to P , the fund’s wealth
is Wi = P Q̄i + B̄i + Fi , so that Wi = ( P ) Q̄i + Fi . So, the value of the assets in the fund
changes by a fraction:
                             Wi   Q̄i P    Fi   P̄ Q̄i    P
                    wi :=       =       +     =        ⇥    + f i = ✓i ⇥ p + f i ,
                            W̄i     W̄i   W̄i    W̄i     P̄
contrast with the traditional view in which flows have a temporary price impact (for instance Coval and Staﬀord
(2007)).


                                                        47
that is:
                                                      w i = ✓i p + f i .                                        (61)
This means that the value of the fund increases via the inflow of fi , and via the appreciation of the
stock p, to which the fund has an exposure ✓i .
   Let us first take the case i = 0. The demand (1) is:

                                              ✓i Wi   ✓i W̄i (1 + wi )       1 + wi
                                       Qi =         =                  = Q̄i        ,
                                                P        P̄ (1 + p)           1+p

so that the fractional change in the fund’s demand for shares is:
                                       Qi          wi p   ✓i p + f i p   fi ⇣i p
                                qi =          1=        =              =         ,
                                       Q̄i         1+p         1+p        1+p

with ⇣i = 1 ✓i . We see how ⇣i is the (signed) demand elasticity, which includes crucial income
eﬀects.68 For small price changes, this gives qi ' fi ⇣pi . We also see that, when i = 0 for all
funds, the equilibrium condition qSD = 0 leads to p = f⇣SS exactly.
   Next, consider the case with a general i . Taking logs and then deviations from the baseline
D/P ratio gives:
                                     De
                                 ln     = ln De          ln P = d p.
                                     P
                            e                                e
On the other hand, as = DP = 1 + rf + ⇡, we have ln DP = 1+rf⇡+⇡ = ⇡    ˆ (with ⇡
                                                                                ˆ = ⇡), so that:

                                                      ⇡
                                                      ˆ = (d          p) .                                      (62)

    We take logs in (1), so that ln Qi = ln Wi + ln ✓i ln Pi + i ⇡
                                                                  ˆ . Given that initially ln Q̄i =
ln W̄i + ln ✓i ln P̄ , taking diﬀerences we have ln Qi = ln Wi                 ˆ . Finally, we use the
                                                                     ln P + i ⇡
Taylor expansion ln Wi ' wi and ln P ' p to yield:

                                                    qi = w i     p + i ⇡
                                                                        ˆ.                                      (63)

Using (61), we obtain (7):

                   qi =    (1     ✓i ) p + fi + i (d          p) =     (1   ✓i + i ) p + fi + i d.

Proof of Proposition 4 We call Ft the cumulative inflow into the mixed fund, normalizing F0 to
be the mixed fund’s initial endowment of bonds. Then, as all dividend and bond coupon are given
to the consumer, Wt = Pt Q + Ft , and in the baseline economy W̄t = P̄t Q + F̄t . We call F̃t := Ft F̄t
the deviation of the dollar flows from the baseline. Subtracting, we have Wt W̄t = Pt P̄t Q+ F̃t ,
i.e. W̄t wt = P̄t Qpt + F̃t , so with ft = W̄
                                           F̃t
                                              t
                                                ,

                                                      wt = ✓pt + ft .                                           (64)
   68
      This is the compensated or Hicksian elasticity of demand: indeed, after the price change, the fund can purchase
its old holdings (which is the foundation of the Hicksian demand), simply because it already owns them). Controlling
for fund wealth, the demand elasticity is 1. But given fund wealth has an elasticity ✓ to the price, the total demand
elasticity ( ⇣) is 1 + ✓.



                                                               48
     Now, from the demand for stocks, we have Qt Pt = Wt ✓eˆ⇡t +⌫t , while in the baseline economy
Q̄t P̄t = W̄t ✓. Dividing through, we get: Q t Pt
                                           Q̄t P̄t
                                                   =W   e ⇡t +⌫t , so that (1 + qt ) (1 + pt ) = (1 + wt ) eˆ⇡t +⌫t .
                                                      t ˆ
                                                    W̄t
Linearizing, qt + pt = wt + ˆ ⇡t + ⌫t . Hence, by (64),

                                       qt =     (1   ✓) pt + ˆ
                                                              ⇡t + f t + ⌫ t .                                    (65)

Finally, using ⇡ˆt = (det        pt ) + Et [ pt+1 ] (see (18)), we obtain qt =          (1         ✓ +  ) pt +  det +
Et [ pt+1 ] + ft + ⌫t .

Proof of Proposition 5 Equation (19) can be rewritten as qt =  (Et pt+1 ⇢pt + det ) + ft + ⌫t .
As qt = 0, this is also:
                                                              ft + ⌫t
                                   Et pt+1 ⇢pt + det +                = 0.                           (66)
                                                                 
                                                                            P
Defining zt := det + ft +⌫
                         
                           t
                             , this gives pt = Et p1+⇢
                                                   t+1 +zt
                                                           , so that pt = Et 1⌧ t (1+⇢)⌧ t+1 . The equity
                                                                                      z⌧

premium comes from (65) with qt = 0.


B      Appendix: Identification methodology
We summarize the algorithms that we use to estimate the multipliers in Section 4.2 the multipliers
and elasticities in Section 4.3. The algorithms are the same, with some minor adjustments given
the unique features of either the FoF data or 13F data.

B.1      Algorithm used for investor-level data
We summarize the algorithm that we use to extract factors, ⌘t , in Section 4.2.

    1. We run the panel regression

                                 qit = ai + bi yt + ct + ⌘1t x1i,t 1 + ⌘2t x2i,t 1 +      q̌it ,

       where yt is GDP growth, ai is an investor fixed eﬀect, ct is a time fixed eﬀect, x1i,t 1 is
       lagged size, and x2i,t 1 lagged active share. We collect the residuals, q̌it .

    2. We compute the time-series standard deviation of q̌it by investor. In each quarter, we sort
       investors into 20 groups based on this standard deviation. Intuitively, funds with diﬀerent
       volatilities of q̌it are likely to have diﬀerent exposures to the factors. By group and quarter,
       we average q̌it , q̌gt E
                                , where g indexes the groups.

    3. We extract principal components based on the panel of 20 groups of                      E
                                                                                             q̌gt .

B.2      Algorithm used for sector-level data
We summarize the algorithm that we use for the Flow of Funds (FoF) data in Section 4.3.
                                                                                                           2
    1. We construct pseudo-equal value weights Ẽi,t 1 , where we start from Ẽi = PN i 2 , where
                                          n            o                            k=1
                                                                                   P k
        i =  ( qit ), and define Ẽi = min ⇠ Ẽi , N , where ⇠ 1 is tuned so that i Ẽi = 1. We
                                                   1.5



                                                         49
       exclude the corporate sector in constructing the instrument. This winsorizes the quasi-equal
       weights to be at most 50% higher than strict equal weights. This adjustment ensures that the
       equal weights are not too concentrated for sectors with very stable qit .69 This is relevant
       when the number of sectors is small, as is the case for the FoF.

   2. We run the panel regression

                                            qit = ↵i +     t+     i   yt + i t +       q̌it ,                       (67)

       using Ẽ as regression weights, and construct the q̌it as the residuals. Here yt is quarterly
       real GDP growth and we allow for a time trend as some sectors grew substantially faster in,
       for instance, the nineties than in the subsequent period.
                                                           1
   3. We extract the principal components of Ẽi2 q̌it and denote the estimated vector of principal
      components by ⌘tP C,e .

   4. We construct the GIV instrument:70
                                                           N
                                                           X
                                                    Zt =         Si,t 1 q̌it .                                      (68)
                                                           i=1


   5. We estimate the multiplier, M , using the time-series regression

                                                 pt = ↵ + M Z t +       0 e
                                                                        P ⌘t + e t ,                                (69)
                   ⇣             ⌘
       where ⌘te =   yt , ⌘tP C,e . This regression is also the first stage to estimate the elasticities.
       Instrumenting pt by Zt in both cases, we estimate the demand elasticity via

                                               qEt = ↵E        ⇣ pt +     0 e
                                                                          E ⌘t + e t ,                              (70)

       and the supply elasticity via

                                              qCt = ↵C         ⇣ C pt +    0 e
                                                                           C ⌘t + e t .                             (71)


References
Amiti, Mary and David E Weinstein, “How much do idiosyncratic bank shocks aﬀect investment? Evidence
 from matched bank-firm loan data,” Journal of Political Economy, 2018, 126 (2), 525–587.
  69
     Quasi-equal weights Ẽj are preferable to equal weights Ej = N1 as they add precision — in the same way in
which to estimate a mean, weighing by inverse variance is better than equal weighing (Gabaix and Koijen (2020)).
The primary objective of inverse variance weighing is to downplay the importance of very volatile sectors that may
distort the estimation of the common factors. If the inverse variance weights get too concentrated as some sectors
are very stable, the same concern applies, and we therefore winsorize the weights at 1.5      N . While 50% is somewhat
arbitrary, it is a significant departure from equal weights. We also explore the sensitivity of our results to this cutoﬀ
in Section D.4, and find them to be robust.
  70
                                                      PN
     An equivalent way to proceed is to use zt =        i=1 Si,t 1 ǔit , where ǔit is the measure of idiosyncratic shock
common from step 4. This way, zt is made of idiosyncratic shocks. As we control for ⌘tP C,e below, the two procedures
are similar.


                                                           50
Bacchetta, Philippe and Eric Van Wincoop, “Infrequent portfolio decisions: A solution to the forward discount
 puzzle,” American Economic Review, 2010, 100 (3), 870–904.

Baker, Malcolm and Jeﬀrey Wurgler, “A catering theory of dividends,” The Journal of Finance, 2004, 59 (3),
 1125–1165.

Baker, Malcolm, Stefan Nagel, and Jeﬀrey Wurgler, “The Eﬀect of Dividends on Consumption,” Brookings
 Papers on Economic Activity, 2007, 38 (1), 231–292.

Bansal, Ravi and Amir Yaron, “Risks for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset Pricing Puzzles,”
 Journal of Finance, 2004, 59 (4), 1481–1509.

Barberis, Nicholas and Andrei Shleifer, “Style investing,” Journal of financial Economics, 2003, 68 (2), 161–199.

Barberis, Nicholas, Ming Huang, and Richard H Thaler, “Individual preferences, monetary gambles, and
 stock market participation: A case for narrow framing,” American economic review, 2006, 96 (4), 1069–1090.

Barbon, Andrea and Virginia Gianinazzi, “Quantitative Easing and Equity Prices: Evidence from the ETF
 Program of the Bank of Japan,” The Review of Asset Pricing Studies, 2019, 9 (2), 210–255.

Barro, Robert J, “Rare disasters and asset markets in the twentieth century,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics,
 2006, 121 (3), 823–866.

Ben-David, Itzhak, Francesco Franzoni, and Rabih Moussawi, “Hedge fund stock trading in the financial
 crisis of 2007–2009,” The Review of Financial Studies, 2012, 25 (1), 1–54.

Ben-David, Itzhak, Francesco Franzoni, and Rabih Moussawi, “Do ETFs Increase Volatility?,” The Journal
 of Finance, 2018, 73 (6), 2471–2535.

Ben-David, Itzhak, Francesco Franzoni, Rabih Moussawi, and John Sedunov, “The granular nature of
 large institutional investors,” Management Science, forthcoming.

Ben-David, Itzhak, Jiacui Li, Andrea Rossi, and Yang Song, “Non-Fundamental Demand and Style Returns,”
 2020. Working Paper.

Ben-David, Itzhak, Jiacui Li, Andrea Rossi, and Yang Song, “Style Investing, Positive Feedback Loops, and
 Asset Pricing Factors,” Working Paper, 2020.

Ben-Rephael, Azi, Shmuel Kandel, and Avi Wohl, “Measuring investor sentiment with mutual fund flows,”
 Journal of Financial Economics, 2012, 104 (2), 363–382. Special Issue on Investor Sentiment.

Bhanot, Karan and Palani-Rajan Kadapakkam, “Anatomy of a government intervention in index stocks: Price
 pressure or information eﬀects?,” The Journal of Business, 2006, 79 (2), 963–986.

Black, Fischer, “Noise,” The Journal of Finance, 1986, 41 (3), 528–543.

Bordalo, Pedro, Nicola Gennaioli, Rafael La Porta, and Andrei Shleifer, “Expectations of Fundamentals
 and Stock Market Puzzles,” Technical Report, National Bureau of Economic Research 2020.

Bouchaud, Jean-Philippe, Julius Bonart, Jonathan Donier, and Martin Gould, Trades, quotes and prices:
 financial markets under the microscope, Cambridge University Press, 2018.

Brainard, William C. and James Tobin, “Pitfalls in Financial Model Building,” American Economic Review:
 Papers and Proceedings, 1968, 58 (2), 99–122.

Brunnermeier, Markus K. and Stefan Nagel, “Hedge Funds and the Technology Bubble,” The Journal of
 Finance, 2004, 59, 2013–2040.



                                                       51
Brunnermeier, Markus K, Michael Sockin, and Wei Xiong, “China’s model of managing the financial system,”
 Technical Report, National Bureau of Economic Research 2020.

Buﬀa, Andrea M, Dimitri Vayanos, and Paul Woolley, “Asset management contracts and equilibrium prices,”
 Technical Report, National Bureau of Economic Research 2019.

Caballero, Ricardo J and Alp Simsek, “A risk-centric model of demand recessions and speculation,” The Quar-
 terly Journal of Economics, 2019.

Calvet, Laurent E., John Y. Campbell, and Paolo Sodini, “Fight Or Flight? Portfolio Rebalancing by
 Individual Investors,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2009, 124 (1), 301–348.

Camanho, Nelson, Harald Hau, and Hélène Rey, “Global portfolio rebalancing and exchange rates,” Working
 Paper, 2019.

Campbell, John Y. and John H. Cochrane, “By Force of Habit: A Consumption-Based Explanation of Aggre-
 gate Stock Market Behavior,” Journal of Political Economy, 1999, 107 (2), 205–251.

Carvalho, Vasco M and Basile Grassi, “Large firm dynamics and the business cycle,” American Economic
 Review, 2019, 109 (4), 1375–1425.

Chang, Yen-Cheng, Harrison Hong, and Inessa Liskovich, “Regression Discontinuity and the Price Eﬀects of
 Stock Market Indexing,” Review of Financial Studies, 2014, 28 (1), 212–246.

Charoenwong, Ben, Randall Morck, and Yupana Wiwattanakantang, “Bank of Japan Equity Purchases:
 The Final Frontier in Extreme Quantitative Easing,” April 2020. NBER Working Paper 25525.

Chien, YiLi, Harold Cole, and Hanno Lustig, “Is the volatility of the market price of risk due to intermittent
 portfolio rebalancing?,” American Economic Review, 2012, 102 (6), 2859–96.

Cochrane, John H., “Presidential Address: Discount Rates,” The Journal of Finance, 2011, 66 (4), 1047–1108.

Cole, Allison, Jonathan Parker, and Antoinette Schoar, “Household Portfolios and Retirement Saving Over
 the Life Cycle,” 2021. Working Paper, MIT Sloan.

Coval, Joshua and Erik Staﬀord, “Asset fire sales (and purchases) in equity markets,” Journal of Financial
 Economics, 2007, 86 (2), 479–512.

Cutler, David M, James M Poterba, and Lawrence H Summers, “Speculative Dynamics And The Role Of
 Feedback Traders,” The American Economic Review Papers and Proceedings, 1990, 80 (2), 63–68.

Da, Zhi, Borja Larrain, Clemens Sialm, and Jose Tessada, “Destabilizing Financial Advice: Evidence from
 Pension Fund Reallocations,” Review of Financial Studies, 2018, 31 (10), 3720–3755.

De Long, J. Bradford, Andrei Shleifer, Lawrence H. Summers, and Robert J. Waldmann, “Noise Trader
 Risk in Financial Markets,” Journal of Political Economy, 1990, 98 (4), 703–738.

Deuskar, Prachi and Timothy C. Johnson, “Market Liquidity and Flow-driven Risk,” The Review of Financial
 Studies, 2011, 24 (3), 721–752.

Di Giovanni, Julian and Andrei A Levchenko, “Country size, international trade, and aggregate fluctuations
 in granular economies,” Journal of Political Economy, 2012, 120 (6), 1083–1132.

Di Maggio, Marco, Amir Kermani, and Kaveh Majlesi, “Stock Market Returns and Consumption,” Journal
 of Finance, 2020, 75 (6), 3175–3219.

Dierker, Martin, Jung-Wook Kim, Jason Lee, and Randall Morck, “Investors’ Interacting Demand and
 Supply Curves for Common Stocks,” Review of Finance, 2016, 20 (4), 1517–1547.


                                                     52
Dong, Xi, Namho Kang, and Joel Peress, “How the Speed of Capital Aﬀects Factor Momentum, Reversal and
 Volatility?,” Available at SSRN, 2021.

Dou, Winston, Leonid Kogan, and Wei Wu, “Common Fund Flows: Flow Hedging and Factor Pricing,”
 Available at SSRN, 2020.

Duﬃe, Darrell, “Presidential Address: Asset Price Dynamics with Slow-Moving Capital,” Journal of Finance, 2010,
 65 (4), 1237–1267.

Duﬃe, Darrell and Bruno Strulovici, “Capital mobility and asset pricing,” Econometrica, 2012, 80 (6), 2469–
 2509.

Edelen, Roger M and Jerold B Warner, “Aggregate price eﬀects of institutional trading: a study of mutual
 fund flow and market returns,” Journal of Financial Economics, 2001, 59 (2), 195–220.

Farmer, Roger, Expectations, employment and prices, Oxford University Press, 2010.

Frazzini, Andrea and Owen A Lamont, “Dumb money: Mutual fund flows and the cross-section of stock returns,”
  Journal of Financial Economics, 2008, 88 (2), 299–322.

Frazzini, Andrea, Ronen Israel, and Tobias J Moskowitz, “Trading costs,” Working Paper, 2018.

Friedman, Benjamin M., “Financial Flow Variables and the Short-Run Determination of Long-Term Interest
  Rates,” Journal of Political Economy, 1977, 85 (4), 661–689.

Gabaix, Xavier, “The granular origins of aggregate fluctuations,” Econometrica, 2011, 79 (3), 733–772.

Gabaix, Xavier, “Variable rare disasters: An exactly solved framework for ten puzzles in macro-finance,” The
 Quarterly journal of economics, 2012, 127 (2), 645–700.

Gabaix, Xavier, “A sparsity-based model of bounded rationality,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2014, 129
 (4), 1661–1710.

Gabaix, Xavier, “Behavioral Inattention,” Handbook of Behavioral Economics, 2019, 2, 261–344.

Gabaix, Xavier, “A behavioral New Keynesian model,” American Economic Review, 2020, 110 (8), 2271–2327.

Gabaix, Xavier and Matteo Maggiori, “International liquidity and exchange rate dynamics,” The Quarterly
 Journal of Economics, 2015, 130 (3), 1369–1420.

Gabaix, Xavier and Ralph SJ Koijen, “Granular instrumental variables,” Working Paper 28204, National Bureau
 of Economic Research December 2020.

Gabaix, Xavier, Arvind Krishnamurthy, and Olivier Vigneron, “Limits of arbitrage: theory and evidence
 from the mortgage-backed securities market,” The Journal of Finance, 2007, 62 (2), 557–595.

Galaasen, S, R Jamilov, R Juelsrud, and H Rey, “Granular credit risk,” Technical Report, Working paper
 2020.

Garleanu, Nicolae, Lasse Heje Pedersen, and Allen M. Poteshman, “Demand-Based Option Pricing,” Review
 of Financial Studies, 2009, 22 (10), 4259–4299.

Ghysels, Eric, Hanwei Liu, and Steve Raymond, “Institutional Investors and Granularity in Equity Markets,”
 2021. Working Paper.

Giglio, Stefano, Matteo Maggiori, Johannes Stroebel, and Stephen Utkus, “Five Facts About Beliefs and
 Portfolios,” American Economic Review, 2021, 111 (5), 1481–1522.




                                                       53
Goetzmann, William N. and Massimo Massa, “Index Funds and Stock Market Growth,” The Journal of
 Business, 2003, 76 (1), 1–28.

Gourinchas, Pierre-Olivier, Walker Ray, and Dimitri Vayanos, “A preferred-habitat model of term premia
 and currency risk,” Working Paper, 2020.

Greenwood, Robin and Andrei Shleifer, “Expectations of returns and expected returns,” The Review of Finan-
 cial Studies, 2014, 27 (3), 714–746.

Greenwood, Robin and Dimitri Vayanos, “Bond Supply and Excess Bond Returns,” The Review of Financial
 Studies, 2014, 27 (3), 663–713.

Greenwood, Robin and Samuel G Hanson, “Issuer quality and corporate bond returns,” The Review of Financial
 Studies, 2013, 26 (6), 1483–1525.

Greenwood, Robin, Samuel G Hanson, Jeremy C Stein, and Adi Sunderam, “A quantity-driven theory of
 term premiums and exchange rates,” Working Paper, 2019.

Haddad, Valentin, Paul Huebner, and Erik Loualiche, “How Competitive is the Stock Market? Theory,
 Evidence from Portfolios, and Implications for the Rise of Passive Investing,” 2021. Working paper, UCLA.

Hamilton, James D., “Why You Should Never Use the Hodrick-Prescott Filter,” The Review of Economics and
 Statistics, 2018, 100 (5), 831–843.

Harris, Lawrence and Eitan Gurel, “Price and Volume Eﬀects Associated with Changes in the S&P 500 List:
 New Evidence for the Existence of Price Pressures,” Journal of Finance, 1986, 41 (4), 815–829.

Hartzmark, Samuel M. and David H. Solomon, “Predictable Price Pressure,” 2022. Working paper, Chicago
 Booth.

He, Zhiguo and Arvind Krishnamurthy, “Intermediary Asset Pricing,” American Economic Review, 2013, 103
 (2), 732–770.

Herskovic, Bernard, Bryan T Kelly, Hanno N Lustig, and Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh, “Firm volatility in
 granular networks,” Journal of Political Economy, forthcoming.

Johnson, Timothy C, “Dynamic liquidity in endowment economies,” Journal of Financial Economics, 2006, 80
  (3), 531–562.

Kahneman, Daniel and Dan Lovallo, “Timid choices and bold forecasts: A cognitive perspective on risk taking,”
 Management science, 1993, 39 (1), 17–31.

Kekre, Rohan and Moritz Lenel, “Monetary policy, redistribution, and risk premia,” University of Chicago,
 Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper, 2020, (2020-02).

Kendall, Maurice G, “Note on bias in the estimation of autocorrelation,” Biometrika, 1954, 41 (3-4), 403–404.

Koijen, Ralph SJ and Motohiro Yogo, “A demand system approach to asset pricing,” Journal of Political
 Economy, 2019, 127 (4), 1475–1515.

Koijen, Ralph SJ and Motohiro Yogo, “Exchange Rates and Asset Prices in a Global Demand System,” 2020.
 NBER Working Paper 27342.

Koijen, Ralph SJ, Robert J Richmond, and Motohiro Yogo, “Which investors matter for global equity
 valuations and expected returns?,” Working Paper, 2019.

Koijen, Ralph SJ, Tobias J Moskowitz, Lasse Heje Pedersen, and Evert B Vrugt, “Carry,” Journal of
 Financial Economics, 2018, 127 (2), 197–225.


                                                      54
Kondor, Péter and Dimitri Vayanos, “Liquidity risk and the dynamics of arbitrage capital,” The Journal of
 Finance, 2019, 74 (3), 1139–1173.

Kyle, Albert S., “Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading,” Econometrica, 1985, 53 (6), 1315–1335.

Li, Jennifer, Neil D. Pearson, and Qi Zhang, “Impact of Demand Shocks on the Stock Market: Evidence from
  Chinese IPOs,” 2020. Working Paper.

Li, Jiacui, “Slow-moving liquidity provision and flow-driven common factors in stock returns,” Available at SSRN
  2909960, 2018.

Li, Jiacui, “What Drives the Size and Value Factors?,” 2021. Working Paper, University of Utah.

Li, Jiacui and Zihan Lin, “Prices Are Less Elastic at More Aggregate Levels,” 2022. Working paper, David Eccles
  School of Business, University of Utah.

Lou, Dong, “A Flow-Based Explanation for Return Predictability,” The Review of Financial Studies, 12 2012, 25
  (12), 3457–3489.

Lucas, Robert E. Jr., “Asset Prices in an Exchange Economy,” Econometrica, 1978, 46 (6), 1429–1445.

Ma, Yueran, “Nonfinancial Firms as Cross-Market Arbitrageurs,” The Journal of Finance, 2019, 74 (6), 3041–3087.

Martin, Ian, “What is the Expected Return on the Market?,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2017, 132 (1),
 367–433.

Mitchell, Mark, Lasse Heje Pedersen, and Todd Pulvino, “Slow moving capital,” American Economic Review
 Papers and Proceedings, 2007, 97 (2), 215–220.

Moreira, Alan, “Capital immobility and the reach for yield,” Journal of Economic Theory, 2019, 183, 907–951.

Newey, Whitney K. and Kenneth D. West, “Automatic Lag Selection in Covariance Matrix Estimation,” The
 Review of Economic Studies, 10 1994, 61 (4), 631–653.

Parker, Jonathan A, Antoinette Schoar, and Yang Sun, “Retail Financial Innovation and Stock Market
 Dynamics: The Case of Target Date Funds,” Working Paper, 2020.

Pavlova, Anna and Taisiya Sikorskaya, “Benchmarking Intensity,” Working Paper, 2020.

Peng, Cameron and Chen Wang, “Factor demand and factor returns,” Working Paper, 2021.

Petajisto, Antti, “Why do demand curves for stocks slope down?,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis,
 2009, 44 (5), 1013–1044.

Rigobon, Roberto, “Identification through Heteroskedasticity,” The Review of Economics and Statistics, 2003, 85
 (4), 777–792.

Samuelson, Paul A, “Summing up on business cycles: opening address,” Conference Proceedings of the Federal
  Reserve Bank of Boston, 1998, 42, 33–36.

Schmickler, Simon, “Identifying the Price Impact of Fire Sales Using High-Frequency Surprise Mutual Fund Flows,”
  Working Paper, 2020.

Shiller, Robert, “Stock prices and social dynamics,” Brookings papers on economic activity, 1984, 1984 (2), 457–510.

Shleifer, Andrei, “Do Demand Curves for Stocks Slope Down?,” Journal of Finance, 1986, 41 (3), 579–590.

Shleifer, Andrei, “Ineﬃcient markets: An introduction to behavioural finance,” Oxford University Press, 2000.



                                                        55
Summers, Lawrence H, “Does the stock market rationally reflect fundamental values?,” The Journal of Finance,
  1986, 41 (3), 591–601.

Tobin, James, “Monetary policy: recent theory and practice,” in “Current Issues in Monetary Economics,” Springer,
  1998, pp. 13–21.

Vayanos, Dimitri and Jean-Luc Vila, “A preferred-habitat model of the term structure of interest rates,” Working
 Paper, 2020.

Vayanos, Dimitri and Paul Woolley, “An Institutional Theory of Momentum and Reversal,” Review of Financial
 Studies, 2013, 26 (5), 1087–1145.

Wachter, Jessica A, “Can time-varying risk of rare disasters explain aggregate stock market volatility?,” The
 Journal of Finance, 2013, 68 (3), 987–1035.

Warther, Vincent A, “Aggregate mutual fund flows and security returns,” Journal of financial economics, 1995,
 39 (2-3), 209–235.

Wurgler, Jeﬀrey and Ekaterina Zhuravskaya, “Does Arbitrage Flatten Demand Curves for Stocks?,” Journal
 of Business, 2002, 75 (4), 583–608.




                                                       56
                                  Online Appendix for
   “In Search of the Origins of Financial Fluctuations: The
                 Inelastic Market Hypothesis”
                                Xavier Gabaix and Ralph S.J. Koijen

                                             May 12, 2022


Table of contents

C Data Sources and Construction                                                                       58
  C.1 Sector-level data from the Flow of Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        58
  C.2 Investor-level data from 13F filings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      62

D Additional Empirical Results                                                                        65
  D.1 Performance of the GIV Estimator: Simulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           65
  D.2 Drawdown dynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         66
  D.3 Flows across investor classes are small . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     66
  D.4 GIV estimates using FoF data: Robustness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          68
  D.5 The volatility of idiosyncratic demand shocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         70
  D.6 Dynamics of mutual fund flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         70
  D.7 The impact of mutual fund flows at longer horizons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          70
  D.8 Screening capital flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     71

E Survey Details                                                                                      74

F Omitted Proofs                                                                                      77
  F.1 Derivation of (18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    77
  F.2 Proof of Proposition 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      77
  F.3 Proof of Proposition 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      77
  F.4 Traditional rational or behavioral models predict that markets are extremely price-
      elastic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   78

G Theory Complements                                                                                  82
  G.1 The model with many asset classes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         82
  G.2 The model with time-varying market inelasticity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         83
  G.3 Micro versus macro elasticity: The cross-section of stocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        84
  G.4 Short-term versus long-term elasticity when funds are inertial . . . . . . . . . . . .          86
  G.5 On the link between the Kyle lambda and the market inelasticity . . . . . . . . . .             89
  G.6 The model in continuous time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        92
  G.7 Infinite horizon model with heterogeneous funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         92
  G.8 Complements to the general equilibrium model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          93
  G.9 Linking flows to beliefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    96

                                                   57
         G.10 Pricing kernel consistent with flow-based pricing: Complements . . . . . . . . . . . 100
         G.11 Corporate finance in inelastic markets: Complements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
         G.12 When flows respond to risk premia in the long run . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106

H Calibration of the general equilibrium model of Section 5: Details                              112
  H.1 From discrete to continuous time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
  H.2 Calibration steps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112

I        Computing elasticities numerically in equilibrium models                                      114
         I.1 Summary of the main results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
         I.2 General procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
         I.3 Lucas models with partially correlated labor income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
         I.4 Long run risk model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118


C          Data Sources and Construction
C.1          Sector-level data from the Flow of Funds
We summarize the adjustments we make to the FoF data and the precise mapping to our model.

C.1.1         Data items
We use Corporate Equities (Table 223) for equities. For fixed income, we take the sum of Treasury
Securities (Table 210) and Corporate and Foreign Bonds (Table 213). We use unadjusted flows
(FU) and, for the levels, we use the unadjusted market values when available (LM) and otherwise
the estimated level (FL). Net issuances are equal to the total aggregate flow. The Flow of Funds
revises historical data every quarter and we use the June 2019 vintage of the data.

C.1.2         Notation and data definitions
Sectors are indexed by i = 1, ..., I, where i = F oreign refers to the foreign sector. We observe
holdings of equities, WitE , Treasuries, T rit , and corporate bonds, Cit . We refer to the sum of
Treasuries and corporate bonds as bonds, Bit = T rit + Cit . The flows corresponding to each asset
class are denoted by Fita , a = W P   E
                                        , T r, C, B. Aggregate levels and flows
                                                                            P omit the subscript i,
implying, for instance, for equities i WitE = WtE and for bonds Bt = i Bit . Lastly, the gross
capital gain for equities is denoted by RtX and the return inclusive of dividend payments is denoted
by Rt . We define the total assets of sector i as Wit = WitE + Bit . Net issuances, nit = WNEIt , are
                                                                                             t 1
based on equity markets.
                                                                      X 71
    In the FoF, equity flows are defined by FitE = WitE Wi,t    E
                                                                   1 Rt .  We assume in what follows
that the securities are adjusted at the end of the quarter, Fita = Fita = ( Qait ) Pta , a = E, B.
                                                                                     FE
The total per-period flow is Fit = FitE + FitB and in relative terms fitE = W E it for equities
                                                                                               i,t 1

    71
    When possible, the FoF also follows this definition in other classes and has moved to market values for fixed
income securities as well. However, in some cases, investors report holdings at book value for fixed income and no
direct data on purchases are available, in which case flows are impacted by valuation eﬀects.




                                                       58
                    FB
and      fitB = Bi,tit1 for bonds. The proportional per-period total flow is given by                fit = Wi,tFit1 .
                                    WE
The equity shares are Sit = WitE . The relative change in equity demand, adjusted for price eﬀects,
                                        t
                                            1       QE
is given by       qitE
                  =        fitE    = QE it . The aggregate per-period flow measure is defined as
                                  RtX
        P                               i,t 1
  fSt = i Si,t 1 fit .
    In the remainder of this subsection, we summarize the adjustments we make to the raw data
to account for measurement challenges in the data. In every step, we make sure that the market
clearing conditions hold for both levels and flows.

C.1.3      Adjustment for foreign holdings of equity and corporate bonds
The FoF reports total flows and holdings of corporate equities and corporate bonds, including
foreign assets held by US investors. As we are interested in measuring the flow into the US equity
market, we adjust the holdings and flows for foreign positions. Unfortunately, we do not know
the holdings and flows of foreign assets by sector, but we do know the aggregate positions across
investors. We discuss our measurement approach in the context of equities, but we apply the same
procedure to corporate bonds.72
    Let WitE,j be the equity holdings of sector i in period t for j = D, F, T , that is, the investment
in domestic (D) and in foreign (F ) securities
                                          P as well as their total (T ). We define the set of all US
institutions by U S. We define xU S,t := i2U S xit for x = W E , F E , that is, for equity levels and
equity flows.
    We start from the following identities, for j = D, F, T ,

                                                         xD     F     T
                                                          it + xit = xit ,                                     (72)

                                                WitE,j = Wi,t
                                                           E,j    X,j
                                                               1 Rt   +       FitE,j ,                         (73)
where RtX,j is the capital gain as before. We observe xD   t , xt , xit for x = W , F . We assume
                                                                F    T           E      E

that the capital gain that diﬀerent investors earn in the US is the same across investors (that is,
RitX,D = RtX,D ), and we make the same assumption for the capital gain on foreign investments (that
is, RitX,F = RtX,F ).
     We assume for all US institutions, i 2 U S, that their equity holdings are split in the same way
across foreign and domestic equities:

                                                 WitE,D =         E,T
                                                              t Wit , 8i 2 U S.


It then follows that
                                                         WUE,D
                                                            S,t         WUE,F
                                                                           S,t
                                                   t =            =1              ,
                                                         WUE,T
                                                            S,t         WUE,T
                                                                           S,t

where WUE,F         E,T
          S,t and WU S,t can directly be observed in the FoF. This measures                 t.
   For flows, we assume that

                                                FitE,D = Wi,t
                                                           E,D D
                                                              1 ⌘t +    t 1      FitE,T ,
 72
      As US Treasuries are only issued in the US, obviously no adjustment is required for US Treasuries.




                                                                  59
where ⌘tD is a taste shock that we assume to be common across investors and it impacts investors in
proportion to their position in the previous period. Aggregating across all US institutions implies

                                            FUE,D     E,D      D
                                               S,t = WU S,t 1 ⌘t +        t 1   FUE,T
                                                                                   S,t ,

implying
                                   FUE,D
                                      S,t    t 1    FUE,T
                                                       S,t          (1            E,T
                                                                          t 1 ) FU S,t     FUE,F
                                                                                              S,t
                          ⌘tD =           E,D
                                                             =             E,T         E,F
                                                                                                  ,
                                         WU S,t 1                        WU S,t 1 WU S,t 1
which can be computed directly from the FoF. With ⌘t and t in hand, we compute the estimate
of domestic equity holdings and flows. We also adjust aggregate flows and levels to ensure that
market clearing holds.

C.1.4       The impact of the 2008-2009 financial crisis
Three sectors have non-zero equity holdings only since the 2008-2009 financial crisis: the Federal
Government (sector 31), the Monetary Authority (sector 50), and Funding Corporations (sector 71).
These positions are all associated with the federal financial stabilization programs. We describe the
adjustments we make to these series.
    The holdings of the Federal Government are derived from “corporate equities issued by com-
mercial banking under the federal financial stabilization programs,” “corporate equities issued by
funding corporations (AIG) under the federal financial stabilization programs,” “corporate equities
issued by bank-holding companies (GMAC) under the federal financial stabilization programs,”
and “corporate equities issued by GSEs under the federal financial stabilization programs.” From
2009.Q4 - 2011.Q1, Funding Corporations and the Monetary Authority record the exact same eq-
uity holdings. Their holdings are zero elsewhere. It is only a small position, and it comes from the
way the AIG bailout was structured (per correspondence with economists at the FoF). The holdings
are described as “Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Preferred Interests in AIA Aurora LLC and
ALICO Holdings LLC.” Both are life insurance subsidiaries of AIG.
    The dynamics of the levels are plotted in the left panel of Figure C.1 from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.
The dynamics of net issuances alongside the flows associated with the three sectors are plotted in
the right panel of Figure C.1 from 2008.Q1 to 2014.Q4. The flows from funding corporations and
the monetary authority are identical and cannot be distinguished visually. As can be seen from
the graph, the stabilization programs created a spike in net issuances and these issuances are not
absorbed by the typical investor sectors.
    We aggregate the flows of these three sectors and subtract them from net issuances. We adjust
the levels as well, and then remove these three sectors from our analysis.

C.1.5       Foreign banking oﬃces in the US and non-financial corporate business holdings
We make adjustments for two additional sectors. First, the sector Foreign Banking Oﬃces in the US
(sector 75) has zero flows since 1993 in most periods, see the left panel of Figure C.2. Second, for
the asset holdings of non-financial corporate businesses (sector 10), the quarterly flows are poorly
measured, see the right panel of Figure C.2 showing the series from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. The
reason is that the FoF interpolates annual flows.73 These flows and holdings reflect firms’ holdings
of other firms’ equity, for instance for strategic or speculative reasons. Prior to the September 2018
 73
      For details of the current procedure, please see here.


                                                               60
Figure C.1: Equity levels and flows around the 2008-2009 financial crisis. The left panel shows the
levels for the Federal government, the monetary authority, and funding corporations. The last two
sectors have identical holdings and flows, and are therefore visually indistinguishable. The sample
is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. The right panel reports the flows associated with the same sectors
as well as net issuances from 2008.Q1 to 2014.Q4. Levels and flows are in expressed in millions of
nominal dollars.

    200000                                                                          300000



    150000                                                                          200000


 Levels                                                                          Flows

 100000                                                                          100000



    50000
                                                                                    0




    0                                                                               −100000
             1995q1   2000q1       2005q1     2010q1     2015q1         2020q1                2008q3      2010q1         2011q3    2013q1          2014q3
                                       Date                                                                              Date

                      Federal Government           Monetary Authority                                  Federal Government         Monetary Authority
                      Funding Corporations                                                             Funding Corporations       Net Issuances




publication, the FoF showed the equity liability of the non-financial corporate sector net of these
inter-corporate equity investments. The current release added the inter-corporate holdings as an
asset and a liability. We undo this adjustment. For both sectors, we subtract the flows from net
issuances and adjust the levels accordingly.

C.1.6          Examples of measurement issues
Even though the FoF data are the best data to use for both equity and fixed income holdings, certain
measurement issues remain. We list them here and perhaps future research can refine some of our
calculations. First, in the FoF, shares issued by ETFs, closed-end funds, and real estate investment
trusts (REITS) are included in the corporate equities instrument category. This may impact the
net issuance statistics, for instance. Most investor sectors do not separately report on holdings of
ETFs, for instance, versus direct investments. As a result, we cannot adjust the holdings. Similarly,
the total holdings include closely held equity. While the supply side is separated, we do not have
disaggregated holdings, which implies we cannot adjust for this on the demand side.
    We start our sample in 1993. In part, this starting date is driven by the fact that institutional
ownership has been rising, and this allows us to disaggregate a large fraction of the holdings. Also,
the dynamics of equity flows, q, also looks more erratic in the earlier years. In Figure C.3, we plot
the dynamics of equity flows across sectors to illustrate this issue. Lastly, ETFs become available
in 1993. ETFs have been growing since then, in part to replace mutual funds, and we merge ETFs
and mutual funds for parts of our analysis.




                                                                          61
Figure C.2: Flows of Foreign Banking Oﬃces in the US and Non-financial Corporate Businesses.
The left panel shows the flows for Foreign Banking Oﬃces in the US and the right panel for Non-
financial Corporate Businesses. The sample is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. Flows are in expressed in
millions of nominal dollars.

   200                                                              150000




   100                                                              100000



 Flows                                                            Flows
   0                                                              50000




   −100
                                                                    0




   −200                                                             −50000
          1995q1   2000q1   2005q1     2010q1   2015q1   2020q1              1995q1   2000q1   2005q1     2010q1   2015q1   2020q1
                                Date                                                               Date




C.1.7       Sample construction of the data for the GIV estimation
Before implementing the GIV procedure, we make two adjustments to the data to mitigate the
impact of outliers. First, we merge the mutual fund and ETF sectors. ETFs were introduced in
1993, which is the start of our sample. The initial flows are very volatile, but their share of the
overall market was small. This volatility gradually dissipates as the sector grows, in part at the
expense of mutual funds. The volatility of the combined sector is much more stable over time.
   Second, we winsorize the data by first removing the time-series median of each series, which is a
robust way to remove diﬀerences in the levels of the series. We then winsorize the data across time
and sectors at the 5%- and 95%-percentiles for the period from 1993.Q1 to 2006.Q4 to mitigate
the influence of outliers. This avoids the need to winsorize the data during the financial crisis and
the larger, as well as in the case of the more volatile flows happening during the earlier part of
the sample. Winsorizing the data unconditionally does not impact our results much as we show in
Section D.4. We exclude the corporate sector in winsorizing the data.

C.2        Investor-level data from 13F filings
We summarize the construction of the 13F data in this section.

C.2.1       Data construction
We source the 13F data from FactSet following Koijen et al. (2019). We start from the holdings
data (table own_inst_13f_detail_eq) and we aggregate the holdings by roll-up entity (using table
own_ent_13f_combined_inst). This combines filers that FactSet assigns as subsidiaries of the
same investor. In addition, we aggregate the subsidiaries of BlackRock based on their names into a
single entity. We identify an investor’s type using table own_ent_institutions. We compute the
market capitalization and holdings using the adjusted variables in FactSet (variables adj_price,


                                                           62
Figure C.3: Dynamics of equity flows across sectors. The figure shows the equity flows,                                                                                           qitE , for
the final 13 sectors in our sample from 1960.Q1 to 2018.Q4.


                      Households                                    State and local govts                  State & local pension funds                                 Foreign sector

         dq                                         dq                                                                                                    dq
                                                                                                      dq

   −.04
      −.020 .02.04                                                                               −.1 0 .1 .2
                                              −.5 0 .5 1 1.5                                                                                       −.04
                                                                                                                                                      −.02 0 .02.04
               1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1                        1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1               1960q1        1980q1 2000q1   2020q1                1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1
                           Date                                               Date                                             Date                                         Date


               Fed govt retirement funds               Property & casualty insurers                                 Life insurance companies                          Closed−end funds
     dq
                                                     dq                                                 dq
                                                                                                                                                           .2

   .5 1 1.5                                                                                                                                               dq

        0                                     −.05 0 .05 .1 .15                                  −.1−.05 0 .05 .1                                  −.4 −.2 0
            1960q1   1980q1 2000q1   2020q1               1960q1        1980q1 2000q1   2020q1               1960q1       1980q1 2000q1   2020q1                1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1
                          Date                                               Date                                              Date                                         Date


                         ETFs                                       Private pension funds                                 Mutual funds                                 Broker dealers
                                                                                                                                                    dq
                                                    dq                                                 dq
           1
   dq
     .5                                                                                                                                            5 10 15

           −.5 0                              −.05 0 .05 .1                                      −.05 0 .05 .1                                             0

               1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1                        1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1                       1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1                 1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1
                           Date                                               Date                                              Date                                        Date


                         Banks

         dq


   −.2−.1 0 .1 .2

               1960q1 1980q1 2000q1 2020q1
                           Date




                                                                                          63
adj_shares_outstanding, and adj_mv). In some rare cases, the total holdings exceeds the shares
outstanding, which may be due to short-selling activity or filing errors. In these cases, we scale the
holdings of all investors for a particular security to ensure that the market clearing condition holds.
We then merge these data with the CRSP-Compustat merged data using CUSIPs. We select the
securities with share code 10 or 11 and an exchange code equal to 1, 2 or 3.

C.2.2    Measuring changes in equity demand
We first discuss how we construct changes in equity demand, qit . We denote by Hiat = Qiat Pat
investor i’s dollar holdings of security a at time t, where
                                                          P time t corresponds to the lastPday of
the quarter. Total equity holdings are given by Eit =       a Hiat . We also define Eit =  a Hiat ,
where Hiat = 1+RX , where Rat is the capital gain. In the absence of (reverse) splits, it holds
                 Hiat           X
                     at
Hiat = Qiat Pa,t 1 . We now define the change in equity demand as

                                                    Eit     Ei,t 1
                                            qit =                    ,
                                                          Eit⇤

where Eit⇤ = 12 Eit + Ei,t 1 , which implies qit 2 [ 2, 2]. This measure of flows is less sensitive to
outliers than the alternative measure that uses only Ei,t 1 in the denominator, as in e.g. Davis and
Haltiwanger (1992).

C.2.3    Constructing characteristics
Next, we discuss how we construct the characteristics that we use in Section B.1. We define the
following characteristics

  1. Log investor size, ln Eit⇤ .

  2. Active share, which is defined as
                                              1X                  m
                                                  |✓iat          ✓iat |,
                                              2 a
      where ✓iat is the portfolio share and ✓iat
                                             m
                                                 the market-weighted portfolio of securities held by
      investor i at time t.

These characteristics define xit , and we use their lagged values, xi,t 1 , to extract the factors.

C.2.4    Sample selection
We use 13F data to extract common factors, ⌘t , based on investors outside of the mutual fund
industry using the same assignment of investor types as in Koijen et al. (2019). To mitigate the
impact of outliers, we focus on the largest 1,000 investors in each period and we remove fund-quarter
observations for which | qit | > 3 i , where i = IQRi /1.35 and IQRi is the interquartile range, a
robust estimator of the standard deviation. We compute IQRi using the full sample for a given
investor. Lastly, we keep investors for which we have at least 20 observations after imposing these
screens.




                                                     64
Figure D.4: Simulation results. The horizontal axis shows the multiplier in the data generating
process and the vertical axis the average estimated multiplier, alongside the 2.5% and 97.5% per-
centiles, across 50,000 replications. We use the same sample size as in the empirical application in
the next section. The text provides further details.

                           14




                           12




                           10




                            8




                            6




                            4




                            2




                            0




                           -2
                                1   2   3   4    5        6   7   8   9    10




D     Additional Empirical Results
D.1     Performance of the GIV Estimator: Simulations
We illustrate the performance of the GIV estimator in an environment that closely mimics our
empirical setting. We refer to Gabaix and Koijen (2020) for a more extended analysis of the GIV
estimator. In particular, we proceed as follows to construct a realistic set of simulations. We start
from our original sample and pick a value of ⇣ that we vary from ⇣ = 1 (a multiplier of 1, a typical
estimate for the micro elasticity) to ⇣ = 0.1 (a multiplier of 10). For each value of ⇣, we construct
ft⌫ = qt + ⇣ pt . We then assume that the data follow a one-factor factor model and estimate
ft⌫ = ⌘t + ut using principal components analysis. This provides us with an estimate of and
   = (ut ). These are the estimates one would obtain given the data we observed historically and
if the true elasticity were equal to the assumed value. It tells us the volatility of aggregate shocks
(µ = ◆0 /N ), the average volatility of idiosyncratic shocks (µln = ◆0 ln /N ), and the dispersion
in these parameters across investors ( = ( ) and ln = (ln )).
    To simulate the data, we assume that ⇠ N (µ , 2 ), ln ⇠ N (µln , ln      2
                                                                                 ), and that the shocks
are normally distributed. In doing so, we ensure that the volatility of prices is the same as in the
data. Throughout, we use the same size distribution across sectors, which on average equals the
one that we observe empirically. We then follow the standard procedure to estimate the multiplier.
    We consider 50,000 replications for each value of ⇣ = 0.1, 0.2, . . . , 1 and report the average
estimate alongside the 2.5% and 97.5% percentiles across all replications in Figure D.4. We report
the multiplier M corresponding to the true data-generating process on the horizontal axis and the
distribution of the estimated multipliers, M e , on the vertical axis. The key takeaway is that our


                                                     65
estimates uncover the true multipliers accurately with the dimensions of N and T that we observe
empirically.

D.2     Drawdown dynamics
In Figure D.5, we plot the drawdowns, defined as the decline in the cumulative stock market index
relative to its maximum so far, of the CRSP value-weighted index. We use these drawdowns to
date recessions that we study in Section 2.

Figure D.5: The figure illustrates the drawdowns of the US stock market from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.
Drawdowns are defined as the ratio of the cumulative return index relative to its running maximum
minus one.

                                                           Drawdowns
                                 0



                                 −.1




                             Drawdown


                            −.3    −.2



                                 −.4



                                 −.5
                                         1995q1   2000q1   2005q1     2010q1   2015q1        2020q1
                                                               Date




D.3     Flows across investor classes are small
If market fluctuations are the result of small demand or flow shocks hitting macro inelastic markets,
studying extreme episodes may provide a hint as to which investor sectors have volatile demand
and flow shocks and which investor sectors provide elasticity to the market. We therefore consider
a case study of the two largest equity downturns in our sample, namely from 2000.Q2 to 2002.Q3
(the technology crash) and from 2007.Q4 to 2009.Q1 (the 2008 global financial crisis), as shown in
Appendix D.2. To measure equity flows, we scale the dollar equity flows for each sector j, FjtE ,
                                                                                        FE
by the size of the aggregate market in the previous quarter, Et 1 , Et jt1 . We remove the mechanical
eﬀects due to revaluation, so that we show only the “active” flows. We then average the percent
flow by sector across quarters for a given downturn.
    The left panel of Figure D.6 corresponds to the tech crash and the right panel to the 2008
financial crisis. In the case of the 2008 financial crisis, we separately report the results for 2008.Q4,
which is the worst quarterly return in our sample. In both cases, we select the eight sectors with
the largest absolute flows as well as the corporate sector. While the total equity risk reallocation,
on average per quarter, remains small, households sell about 0.5% of the market per quarter.74
  74
    We emphasize once more that the household sector in the FoF includes institutional investors such as hedge
funds and non-profits (e.g., endowments), as it is computed as a residual.


                                                             66
Figure D.6: The figure illustrates the rebalancing of investors during drawdowns of the US stock
market from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. The left panel summarizes the data from the tech crash (from
2000.Q2 to 2002.Q3) and the right panel from the 2008 global financial crisis (from 2007.Q4 to
2009.Q1). We plot the average quarterly rebalancing by sector expressed as a fraction of the total
market capitalization (expressed in %). In the right panel, we also replicate the calculation for the
fourth quarter of 2008, which is the most negative quarterly return in our sample. In all cases, we
select the eight sectors with the largest absolute flows as well as the corporate sector.




 Average quarterly flow (in % of the market)                                                                                                                  Average quarterly flow (in % of the market)
                                                                                    2000.Q2 − 2002.Q3                                                                                                                                           2007.Q4 − 2009.Q1




      −.6   −.4      −.2     0     .2                                                                                                                                −.6 −.4 −.2 0         .2 .4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2007.Q4−2009.Q1                            2008.Q4

                                                    s           s             s          ts             s    Fs            ds             s         or                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ld         ds        ers            ts          rs         m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s    Fs            or         nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                    ld         m          er           ov           nd                                nd            ct                                                       ho        un            al           ov           re          fir   ET             ct
                                                ho            fir         al                       fu       ET           un          fu            se                                                                  lf        de             lg          su                              se            fu
                                               se         by             de         lg                                lf                                                                                    se                               ca           in           by                            on
                                                                                  ca          n
                                                                                              io                     ua         on            n                                       H                               ua        er                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ig
                                  ou                     es          er        lo           ns                   ut             si            ig                                       ou                         ut        ok             lo          ty             es              re             si
                       H                            as              ok                                                        en          re                                                                     M                       d            al         as               Fo             en
                                                               Br         an
                                                                              d          pe                      M                    Fo                                                                                   Br         an            su         rc                               lp
                                                rc                                                                         lp                                                                                                                    ca               h                         ca
                                                   h                      e         at e                                 ca                                                                                                      at  e                     pu
                                               pu                        at       iv                                  lo                                                                                                         St         an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          re                               lo
                                         re                          St        Pr                                    d                                                                                                                                                                 d
              N                                                                                                  an                                                                                                                   er              et                              an
               et                                                                                            e                                                                                                                          ty           N                            e
                                                                                                            at                                                                                                                       op                                          at
                                                                                                            St                                                                                                                   Pr                                              St




    During the 2008 financial crisis, net repurchases by firms fell (as firms cut their share buybacks
in bad times) and indeed turned negative, implying that they issued equity. If we zoom in on
2008.Q4, we see large issuances (for instance by financial firms, in part forced by the government
to issue shares),75 which may have further amplified the market decline if the market is inelastic.
    Who is providing elasticity to the market during these episodes? Quite surprisingly, the foreign
sector as well as state and local pension funds are the sectors purchasing the most during each of the
episodes. For the pension funds, this may reflect their mandate to maintain a fixed-share strategy
instead of a conscious eﬀort to time the market (see Proposition 2).76
    The flows across sectors are not only small during downturns, but also onPaverage. To assess the
                                                                                 | FjtE |+| FtF irm |
magnitude of equity risk reallocation across sectors, we compute ytGross =             2Et 1
                                                                                                      , where
  FtF irm
          denotes net issuances of equity by firms. We divide the measure by two as for every buyer
of $1 of equity, there is a seller of the same amount. As some of the flows are associated with net
repurchases, we separately measure the equity risk “creation” and “redemption” as a result of such
                                   | F F irm |
corporate actions via ytAbsN et = Ett 1 , which we will refer to as absolute net flows.
    The average absolute net flow equals 0.30% per quarter and the average gross flows average to
0.87% per quarter for the period from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. The standard deviations are 0.26%
and 0.37%, respectively. The diﬀerence between the series measures the risk reallocation in equity
       75
     During this period, several firms received support from the government. In the FoF, new sectors were created
that otherwise hold no equity positions. We adjust net repurchases and flows for these sectors in order not to distort
our calculations; see Appendix C for details.
  76
     Relatedly, Timmer (2018) finds that in German data, banks (broker dealers) sell when stock prices fall, and
pension funds buy.


                                                                                                                                                         67
markets across institutional sectors, which averages to approximately 0.6% per quarter.77 We plot
the time series of both measures in Figure D.7 for the period from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. The key
takeaway is that the amount of equity risk that gets reallocated across sectors is small. These
small flows contrast with the high levels of trading volume that are observed. However, much of
this trading activity is at the single stock level, that is, exchanging stock A for stock B, instead of
movements in or out of the stock market.
    Small flows are not necessarily inconsistent with elastic markets. Many modern asset pricing
models do not feature any trade. However, in the presence of volatile preference or belief shocks,
this evidence implies that investors must experience the same shocks to preferences or beliefs, and
have virtually the same exposure to these shocks, as otherwise we would see large flows across
sectors.
    In addition to quantities alone, Appendix N.3 also provides some additional first evidence on
the link between flows and prices. Indeed, the demand by households (including mutual funds and
ETFs) is positively correlated with price changes while the demand of the other sectors is strongly
negatively correlated with price changes. This is consistent with the inelastic markets hypothesis
in which shocks from the household sector, as defined by the FoF, lead to volatile prices as market
are inelastic.

Figure D.7: The figure illustrates the reallocation of equity risk across various institutional sectors.
The gross and net flow are defined in the main text. The sample is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.

                                 .025


                                 .02



                           Equity flows


                           .01      .015



                                 .005


                                 0
                                           1995q1   2000q1      2005q1      2010q1       2015q1    2020q1
                                                                    Date

                                                       Absolute net flows            Gross flows




D.4      GIV estimates using FoF data: Robustness
In this section, we illustrate the robustness of our estimate of the multiplier, M . Given the small
number of sectors in the FoF data, we focus on the case with a single principal component (in
addition to a factor with uniform loadings). In Table D.8, we first repeat the benchmark estimate
as a point of reference in the first column. In the second column, we omit all principal components.
  77
    This number is an upper bound to the extent that we care about the aggregate market elasticity as some of
the flows between sectors are low-frequency time trends such as the shift from pension funds to mutual funds in the
nineties or the shift from mutual funds to ETFs during the last twenty years.


                                                                  68
In the third column, we do not merge mutual funds and ETFs. In the fourth column, we do merge
mutual funds and ETFs again, but now winsorize over the full sample from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4
instead of from 1993.Q1 to 2006.Q4 (and hence omit the financial crisis). In column five, we omit
the time trend in (67). In column six, we control for the lagged value of qjt in (67) and we allow
for heterogeneous slope coeﬃcients across sectors on qj,t 1 . In the seventh column, we start the
sample in 2000.Q1. In the last two columns, we change the winsorization of the regression weights
to 1.25
    Nt
        (Column 8) or 1.75
                        Nt
                           (Column 9), see the first step of the GIV algorithm. The main takeaway
is that the multiplier estimates are quite stable across the various specifications. The estimates of
the multiplier vary between 5.1 and 8.0.
Table D.8: Robustness of the GIV estimates. The table reports estimates of the multiplier under
diﬀerent measurement assumptions. We first repeat the benchmark estimate as a point of reference
in the first column from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. In the second column, we omit all principal compo-
nents. In the third column, we do not merge mutual funds and ETFs. In the fourth column, we
do merge mutual funds and ETFs again, but now winsorize over the full sample from 1993.Q1 to
2018.Q4 instead of from 1993.Q1 to 2006.Q4. In column five, we omit the time trend. In column
six, we control for the lagged value of qjt in (67) and we allow for heterogeneous persistence co-
eﬃcients across sectors on qj,t 1 . In the seventh column, we start the sample in 2000.Q1. In the
last two columns, we change the winsorization of the regression weights to 1.25
                                                                            Nt
                                                                                (Column 8) or 1.75
                                                                                               Nt
(Column 9). Standard errors that account for autocorrelation are reported in parentheses.

                     p         p        p        p        p        p        p         p        p
 Z                7.08      8.00     6.94     7.65     6.63     6.77     6.79      7.17     5.12
                 (1.86)    (1.24)   (1.48)   (1.37)   (1.17)   (2.18)   (2.02)    (1.18)   (2.33)

 GDP growth       5.99      5.99     6.06     6.02     6.14     6.01     6.20      5.99     5.97
                 (0.69)    (0.59)   (0.66)   (0.75)   (0.69)   (0.73)   (0.74)    (0.62)   (0.80)

 ⌘1               21.06              22.09   15.59  32.54   25.24   -30.65  14.44   26.23
                 (13.58)            (11.11) (11.58) (6.40) (13.64) (15.65) (10.71) (15.45)

 Constant         -0.01     -0.01    -0.01    -0.01    -0.01    -0.01    -0.01     -0.01    -0.01
                 (0.01)    (0.01)   (0.01)   (0.01)   (0.01)   (0.01)   (0.01)    (0.01)   (0.01)
 Observations      104       104      104      104      104      103      76        104      104

    In Table D.9, we replicate Table 3, but now adding the lagged value of Zt . Across various
specifications, Zt has a small positive autocorrelation of approximately 10-15%. As is clear by
comparing both sets of estimates, including a lag does not change the estimates in a meaningful
way, and the lagged value of Zt is in all cases insignificant.
    In Table D.10, we start from the benchmark results in the previous table and add additional
principal components. Given that the cross-section is small (we only have 12 sectors once we merge
mutual funds and ETFs), the data are not well suited to go beyond one or two principal components,
unfortunately. Nevertheless, for transparency, we show the results up to five principal components
for completeness in Table D.10. By adding additional principal components, idiosyncratic shocks
will end up as factors, which makes it more challenging for us to identify the multiplier precisely.
If we go beyond two principal components, the multiplier declines somewhat from 5.3 with two
principal components to a range from 3.5 to 4.2 with three to five principal components.

                                                 69
Table D.9: Robustness of the GIV estimates for the Flow of Funds: Persistence in Z. The table
replicates Table 3, but now adding the lagged value of Zt . The sample is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.
Standard errors are reported in parentheses.

                                     p        p           qE     qE     qC      qC
                Z                 7.41     5.62
                                 (1.96)   (1.21)

                    p                                    -0.12 -0.16 -0.01 -0.01
                                                        (0.03) (0.04) (0.01) (0.02)

                Z (lag)           -1.59    -1.75         -0.30 -0.40 -0.02 -0.02
                                 (1.84)   (1.46)        (0.26) (0.29) (0.09) (0.08)

                GDP growth        6.41     6.42          0.59   0.86   0.22   0.24
                                 (0.93)   (0.90)        (0.25) (0.24) (0.13) (0.12)

                ⌘1               21.64   24.36   3.88   5.24   -0.72 -0.64
                                (13.74) (13.10) (1.58) (2.42) (0.62) (0.66)

                ⌘2                        30.11                 5.13          0.28
                                          (6.02)               (1.16)        (0.80)

                Constant          -0.01    -0.02         0.00   0.00   -0.00 -0.00
                                 (0.01)   (0.01)        (0.00) (0.00) (0.00) (0.00)
                Observations       103      103          103    103     103   103


D.5    The volatility of idiosyncratic demand shocks
In Table D.11, we report the standard deviation of sector-specific demand shocks, uit .

D.6    Dynamics of mutual fund flows
In Table D.12, we report the estimates of the dynamic model of mutual fund flows that we use in
Section 4.2.

D.7    The impact of mutual fund flows at longer horizons
In Figure D.8, we repeat the analysis as in Section 4.3 but now using mutual fund flow innovations
as in Section 4.2. We estimate the same regression as in (43), but now Zt is constructed using data
on mutual fund flows and ⌘t is estimated using 13F data. We present the results in Figure D.8. As
before the impact of flow shocks on prices is persistent although the confidence interval is wide at
longer horizons of one year.




                                                   70
Table D.10: Robustness of the GIV estimates for the Flow of Funds: Additional principal com-
ponents. The table adds principal components starting from a single principal component. The
sample is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4. Standard errors are reported in parentheses.

                                        p        p        p        p        p
                    Z                7.08     5.28     3.89     4.23     3.46
                                    (1.86)   (1.10)   (0.92)   (0.60)   (0.54)

                    GDP growth       5.99     5.97     5.96     5.96     5.96
                                    (0.69)   (0.67)   (0.64)   (0.51)   (0.51)

                    ⌘1              21.06   23.72     25.76    25.26    26.39
                                   (13.58) (12.79)    (7.26)   (7.66)   (8.36)

                    ⌘2                       29.95    32.56    31.92    33.36
                                             (6.54)   (5.37)   (5.35)   (5.93)

                    ⌘3                                -25.57   -25.06   -26.21
                                                      (5.57)   (5.20)   (5.16)

                    ⌘4                                         16.34    15.93
                                                               (8.34)   (6.68)

                    ⌘5                                                  -18.10
                                                                        (6.20)

                    Constant         -0.01    -0.01    -0.01    -0.01    -0.01
                                    (0.01)   (0.01)   (0.01)   (0.01)   (0.00)
                    Observations      104      104      104      104      104


D.8    Screening capital flows
In Table D.13, we report the slope estimates, j , of the regression in equation (44). In the first
column we list the sector, in the second column whether we consider a flow to be mismeasured, and
in the third column the estimate of j for that particular sector.




                                               71
Table D.11: Volatility of idiosyncratic demand shocks by sector of the Flow of Funds. The table
reports the volatility of idiosyncratic demand shocks by sector. We follow the procedure outlined
in Section 4.3 to estimate the demand shocks. The sample is from 1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.

                         Sector                       S it (uit )     (uit )
                         Households                      0.43         1.05
                         Mutual funds                    0.22         0.92
                         Foreign sector                  0.19         1.44
                         State & local pension funds     0.13         1.69
                         Private pension funds           0.12         1.22
                         Broker dealers                  0.04         7.24
                         Life insurers                   0.03         1.45
                         Property & casualty insurers    0.02         1.66
                         State and local govts           0.02         3.18
                         Closed-end funds                0.01         2.99
                         Fed govt retirement funds       0.01         2.20
                         Banks                           0.01         3.17



Table D.12: Dynamics of mutual fund flows. The table reports the dynamics of fund flows that
we use in Section 4.2. We consider an AR(1), in Column 1, to AR(4) model of flows, in Column
4. In all cases we include a time trend. The standard errors, which correct for autocorrelation, are
reported in parentheses.

                                            f      f      f      f
                          L.f             0.56   0.44   0.41   0.40
                                         (0.04) (0.04) (0.04) (0.04)

                          L2.f                     0.22   0.18   0.17
                                                  (0.03) (0.04) (0.04)

                          L3.f                             0.11   0.11
                                                          (0.04) (0.04)

                          L4.f                                       0.03
                                                                    (0.06)

                          t               -0.19 -0.15 -0.13 -0.12
                                         (0.03) (0.03) (0.02) (0.02)

                          Constant        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
                                         (0.00) (0.00) (0.00) (0.00)
                          Observations    321    320    319    318
                          R2             0.692 0.702 0.703 0.701



                                                72
Figure D.8: Estimates of the aggregate multiplier M = ⇣1 by horizon. The figure plots the multi-
period impact of demand shocks: a demand shock of ft at date t increases the (log) price of equities
from t 1 to t + h by M ft . We use the GIV for instrumentation, see (43). The horizontal axis
indicates the horizon in quarters, from zero (that is, the current) to four quarters. Standard errors
are adjusted for autocorrelation. The sample is from 2000.Q1 to 2019.Q4.

                         15



                         10



                    Multiplier

                          5

                         0



                         −5


                                 −1   0                 1              2            3        4
                                                       Horizon (quarters)

                                          Multiplier               95%−confidence interval




Table D.13: Assessing the mismeasurement of capital flows. The table reports the slope coeﬃcient
of the regression in equation (44) to assess whether capital flows are mismeasured. We consider
a flow to be correctly measured when j is significantly diﬀerent from one. The sample is from
1993.Q1 to 2018.Q4.

       Sector                       Flows included    j  T-statistics for H0 :                   j = 1
       Households                          0        0.47             9.11
       State and local govts               1        0.49             1.95
       State & local pension funds         1        1.04             0.73
       Foreign sector                      0        0.35             6.90
       Fed govt retirement funds           0       -0.03            12.08
       Property & casualty insurers        0        0.55             3.30
       Life insurance companies            0       0.61              2.61
       Closed-end funds                    1        1.08             0.85
       ETFs                                1        1.01             0.93
       Private pension funds               1        1.10             1.49
       Mutual funds                        1        0.98             0.53
       Broker dealers                      0       0.07             22.78
       Banks                               0       -0.06            10.67



                                                           73
E      Survey Details
We conducted three surveys. The first survey by putting out a request via Twitter (using the
#EconTwitter tag) to complete an online survey. In addition, we asked participants of an online
seminar at VirtualFinance.org to complete the same survey – this latter audience being naturally
more representative of the population of academic researchers in finance. Both surveys were con-
ducted before the paper was available online and before the seminar on May 8, 2020. We launched
the Twitter survey on May 7, 2020. We asked four questions:

    1. If a fund buys $1 billion worth of US equities (permanently; it sells bonds to finance that
       position), slowly over a quarter, how much does the aggregate market value of equities change?

    2. In response to the fund buying $1 billion over the quarter, some other investors need to sell.
       Who are the likely investors (by type) to sell their positions? (Pick at most two investor
       types).

          • Potential answers:
             (a) Hedge funds.
             (b) Mutual funds or ETFs.
             (c) Long-term investors such as pension funds and insurance companies.
             (d) Broker dealers.
             (e) Households.
             (f) Foreign investors (of any type).
             (g) Firms issuing new equity
             (h) Other [open text box]. We received hardly any additional sectors and will omit it
                 from the discussion.

    3. Since December 2019, did the equity risk premium:78

          • Potential answers:
             (a) Increase by more than 2.5%.
             (b) Increase between 0% and 2.5%.
             (c) Decrease between 0% and 2.5%.
             (d) Decrease by more than 2.5%.

    4. Can you tell us a bit about yourself

          • Potential answers:
             (a) I am a student in economics / finance / business.
             (b) I have a PhD / doctorate in economics / finance / business, and do research.
             (c) None of the above.
  78
    For the sake of brevity, we do not report the results for this question. It shows a significant amount of disagreement
across respondents. In some models, such uncertainty about the exact value of the equity risk premium gives rise to
inaction and therefore inelastic demand.



                                                           74
Figure E.9: Composition of survey respondents. The figure plots the distribution of respondents
across two surveys; one conducted via Twitter (using the hashtag #EconTwitter) and one conducted
at the beginning of a VirtualFinance.org seminar. The abbreviation EFB stands for Economics,
Finance, and Business.


                             .5

                             .4

                             .3

                             .2

                             .1

                             0
                                            ch                 B                   ch                     er
                                        se                   EF                re                        th
                                          ar           nt                        se                  O
                                       re                 in                       ar
                                   do                ud                    ,n
                                  B,             st     e                    ot
                              EF                 A                      an
                                                                          ce
                           in                                       fin
                         D                                         In
                      Ph
                     A

                                                            EconTwitter                 VirtualFinance




We also presented the paper a week later in the Virtual Macro Seminars (VMACS) on May 14.
We repeated only the first and the last question, but attendees may have already seen the earlier
presentation or have seen the slides. While the results are comparable, we consider it to be slightly
polluted and focus on the earlier two surveys as a result. We remove responses that only signed the
eﬀect (e.g., “positive” or “negative” or “>0”). We received 192 responses via EconTwitter and 102
responses via VirtualFinance.org. In Figure E.9, we summarize the composition of responses.
The abbreviation EFB stands for Economics, Finance, and Business. At least 85% of respondents
are EFB students or have a PhD in EFB and do research.
    In Table E.14, we summarize the responses about the multiplier, M . The main takeaway is that
the profession views the aggregate stock market as highly elastic. Only 3% expects the multiplier
to be larger than one and, in fact, fewer than 50% of the respondents expects a positive multiplier
in each of the surveys. As a result the median multiplier estimate is zero in both surveys, and the
mean is about 0.1. Note that this is even an order of magnitude smaller than the recent estimates
of the micro elasticity of demand.
    Given this feedback, it is interesting to explore the mechanism that may give rise to such high
elasticities.79 In Figure E.10, we provide the results to the third question, which points to hedge
funds and broker dealers. We will explore these sectors in more detail in the paper. However, the
bottom line is that broker dealers are fairly small as a sector and hedge funds do not appear to
provide elasticity, and in particular not during economic downturns when the equity premium tends
to rise sharply.
 79
      This approach to “testing the mechanism” is similar in spirit to the ideas in Chinco et al. (2020) .




                                                                        75
Table E.14: Survey responses regarding the multiplier. The table summarizes the distribution of
survey responses about the multiplier, M . The data are from two surveys; one conducted via Twitter
(using the hashtag #EconTwitter) and one conducted at the beginning of a VirtualFinance.org
seminar. The first column reports the number of respondents. Columns 2 to 6 report the fraction
of respondents who consider the multiplier to exceed one, be greater or equal to one, to exceed zero,
equal to zero, or negative.


                                                 Fraction of responses for which
          Survey                   No. obs. M > 1 M 1 M > 0 M = 0 M < 0
          VirtualFinance               102   2.9%     5.9% 47.1% 52.0%           1.0%
          EconTwitter                  192   3.1%     5.2% 29.5% 67.9%           2.6%

                                                                                    Percentiles
          Survey                         Mean                      5             25       50                         75          95 Max
          VirtualFinance                  0.13                     0              0        0                       0.01           1   5
          EconTwitter                     0.11                     0              0        0                          0        0.75  10




Figure E.10: Who provides elasticity to the market? The figure reports the fraction of respon-
dents pointing to a particular sector as providing elasticity when an investors wants to sell $1bn
worth of equities. The data are from two surveys; one conducted via Twitter (using the hashtag
#EconTwitter) and one conducted at the beginning of a VirtualFinance.org seminar.

                    .3



                    .2



                    .1



                    0
                                rs            ty
                                              ui             ors            ds            s
                                                                                          ld              s
                                                                                                         or             ET
                              le                             st         Fu            ho                 st               Fs
                           ea                eq          ve                n                         ve
                          D              w                             ge            se                             or
                         er             ne              In                       ou                 In             ds
                     ok                            gn              ed            H             m
                    Br             ng              ei              H                           er              un
                                   ui         Fo                                           −t                 lF
                                is s             r                                        ng              ua
                              s                                                       Lo                 ut
                         Firm
                                                                                                     M


                                                             EconTwitter                   VirtualFinance




                                                                            76
F     Omitted Proofs
F.1     Derivation of (18)

             1 + rf + ⇡
                      ¯+⇡
                        ˆ t = 1 + rf + ⇡ t
                              Et [Pt+1 + Dt+1 ]
                            =
                                       Pt
                                 ⇥                                     ⇤
                              Et P̄t+1 (1 + pt+1 ) + D̄t+1 (1 + dt+1 )
                            =
                                             P̄t (1 + pt )
                                 
                                   P̄t+1                   D̄t+1 D̄t
                            = Et         (1 + pt+1 pt ) +            (1 + dt+1 pt )
                                    P̄t                     D̄t P̄t
                            = Et [(1 + g) (1 + pt+1 pt ) + (1 + g) (1 + dt+1 pt )]                    (74)
                            = (1 + g) (1 + ) + (1 + g) Et [ pt+1 + (dt+1 pt )]                        (75)

The zero-th order term gives 1 + rf + ⇡
                                      ¯ = (1 + g) (1 + ), which is the Gordon growth formula,
                       Et [Dt+1 ]
     ¯ g = (1 + g) = Pt . The next order term gives
rf + ⇡

                                  ˆt = (1 + g) Et [ pt+1 + (dt+1
                                  ⇡                                  pt )]                            (76)

In the text, to reduce the notational clutter, we take (18), which is this expression using the
definition of as the baseline (i.e., frictionless) value of E[DPt+1
                                                                t
                                                                    ]
                                                                      rather than of D
                                                                                     Pt
                                                                                       t
                                                                                         . This can be also
interpreted as this expression in the limit of small time intervals, or when the trend growth rate g
is 0, or by changing  as  (1 + g).

F.2     Proof of Proposition 6
The values of pt , ⇡ˆt and so on, were derived in (26). We need to derive the flow ft , the interest rate
rf , and the average risk premium ⇡  ¯.
     As W̄t = 1✓ Dt the baseline value of the mixed fund (when the behavioral friction is 0), (17) and
                             Dt
                         b
(49) give: ft = FtW̄tF̄t = 1t Dt = ✓bt .
                           ✓
   Next, we derive the risk-free rate. The consumer’s first order condition gives the Euler equation
              ⇣       ⌘
1 = Rf,t Et CCt+1  t
                            . As in equilibrium Ct = Yt , the interest rate satisfies the Euler equation
for bonds.
    Now, we move to stocks. The average allocation in equities maximizes a risk-adjusted return,
Et [V p (Rt+1 )] , with V p (R) = R 1 1 . Then, approximately, the allocation in equities is ✓¯E = ⇡¯ 2 .
                                   1

                                                                                                      r
Given that in equilibrium all the wealth comes from equity, the equity premium is ⇡   ¯ = r2 .

F.3     Proof of Proposition 7
Calling D1 the aggregate dividend, the dividend per share goes from D1 = Q       D1
                                                                                  0
                                                                                    to D10 = Q
                                                                                             D1
                                                                                               0 = 1 b.
                                                                                                    D1
                                                                                               0
So, the time-1 dividend per share increases by a fraction d = b.
    Let us first consider a frictionless, elastic / rational model. The price per share increase by the
same fraction as the time-1 dividend per share, i.e. p = b. Calling v = ln (P Q) = p + q S the

                                                    77
change in the market value of the firm, and r the excess return created by the buyback, we have:

              Frictionless model: q S =      b,        d = b,        p = b,    v = 0,     r = 0.         (77)

The market value does not change: the lowering of the number of share outstanding by b is com-
pensated by the increase in the price per share by a fraction, which is the same b.
    Let us next consider an inelastic model. The buyback decreases the total dividend payout from
D0 to D0 P0 Q0 b. So the households experience a change in dividend received D0 = P0 Q0 b
(recall that the all dividends are passed on by the fund to the consumers)80 and a capital gain
Q0 P = P0 Q0 p. Recall that we said that if the extra dividend (respectively extra capital gain)
is X dollars, consumers will “remove from the mixed fund” µD X (respectively µG X) dollars. This
means that the flow is
                                    F 0 = 1 µD     D 0 µG Q 0 P                               (78)
Indeed, if the extra dividend received is D0 , there is a counteracting flow of 1 µD D0 , so that
the total dividend change removed from the mixed fund is µ D0 . Likewise µ Q0 P is “removed”
                                                              D                 G

from the mixed fund. This means that the flow is
                     F0   Q 0 P0 1      µD        D 0 µG Q 0 P   ⇥                                ⇤
              f=        =                                      =✓ 1            µD ( b)     µG p
                    W0     W0                     Q 0 P0
   The total demand change by the mixed fund is then q =                 ⇣p +  d + f , and should be equal to
the supply change q S = b. So

              0=q      qS =    ⇣p +  d + f + b =          ⇣p +  b      ✓ 1   µD b     ✓µG p + b

and the share price change is:
                                                       ⇣ + µD ✓
                                                  p=            b.                                       (79)
                                                       ⇣ + µG ✓
   This yields (60) and implies that p > b if µD > µG . A share buyback increases the market value
by v = p + q S = p b > 0.

F.4     Traditional rational or behavioral models predict that markets are
        extremely price-elastic
In this section, we contrast our findings with the typical macro demand elasticities implied by most
frictionless rational or behavioral models, and find that these are strongly inconsistent with the low
price elasticities that we model and estimate empirically.
    First, as a partial intuition, if agents were risk neutral and the equity premium were 0, any
price discrepancy would lead to an arbitrage, and the price elasticity of demand would be infinite,
⇣ r = 1. This is the intuition behind the most basic form of the eﬃcient markets hypothesis,
where the price is always equal to the present value of dividends (with a constant discount rate),
independently of flows.
    Second, let us examine the more sophisticated case with risk-averse agents. We model aggregate
income Yt as going to the equity dividend as Dt = Yt , and the rest going to labor and other forms
  80
    The outcome would be the same if the rule was diﬀerent. The total dividend change removed from the mixed
fund would still be µD D0 .


                                                        78
of business as ⌦t = (1    ) Yt . For simplicity, we consider the most classic case: the consumer
           P ⇢t Ct1
has utility t e    1
                       and the endowment Yt has i.i.d. growth, Yt = Gt Yt 1 . The basic case is
                                            2
the lognormal one, Gt = eg t+ "t 2 t (with "t a standard Gaussian variable). We also consider a
disaster model, where Gt = eg t if there is no disaster (which happens with probability 1 pD t),
and Gt = eg t B if there is a disaster (which happens with probability pD t), so that if there is a
disaster, the economy shrinks by a factor B 2 (0, 1].
    Suppose that for some reason the market value of equities is diﬀerent from its rational level,
permanently, by a fraction p – that is, the price of equities is permanently Pt = Pt⇤ (1 + p), where Pt⇤
is the rational price.81 How much capital should flow into equities? The next proposition answers
this (the proof is at the end of this subsection).
Proposition 8. (Market elasticity in frictionless rational or behavioral models) We derive the
price-elasticity of the demand for stocks in two classes of frictionless models. We suppose that all
agents are frictionless (and with common beliefs, which can be rational or behavioral), with CRRA
utility and with i.i.d. endowment growth. In the basic model in which growth rates are lognormal,
the elasticity of demand for equities is:
                                                             1 C
                                                      ⇣r =        ,                                                  (80)
                                                             ⇡ WE
where ⇡ is the equity premium, C is aggregate consumption and W E is the stock market capital-
ization. In a disaster model where growth rates follow a jump process, the elasticity of demand for
equities is ⇣ r,D = ⇡1 WCE (1 (1B B)
                                  )B
                                     , where B is the recovery rate of the endowment after a disaster.

    Take the calibrated values C = 0.8Y , where Y is GDP, W E = Y (as the typical market capital-
ization is roughly equal to GDP), and ⇡ = 4%. Then (80) implies that the elasticity predicted by
rational models is ⇣ r = 20. Hence, with a calibrated and empirical elasticity ⇣ = 0.2, we find that
the basic rational model predicts an elasticity of demand 100 times bigger than the empirical one:
                                                       ⇣r
                                                          = 100.                                                     (81)
                                                       ⇣
    Summing up, we find that frictionless rational or behavioral models (of the common “wrong
beliefs” type) predict an elasticity of demand 100 times bigger than the calibrated and empirical
one. Indeed, in a behavioral model agents may have wrong beliefs, but they strongly act on their
beliefs, with the same elasticity as in rational models (replacing the equity premium ⇡ in (80) by
the perceived equity premium, but both are typically calibrated to have the same average value).
    Now take the disaster model. Using the above calibration and the values B = 2/3, = 4 (Barro
(2006), Gabaix (2012)), the elasticity in a disaster model given by Proposition 8 is ⇣ r,D = 8, so
  81
     Johnson (2006) introduces a definition of market illiquidity that pertains to asset pricing models, whether or
not there is trade between agents. His measure quantifies the equilibrium price change induced by a perturbation
in asset supplies. Johnson (2006) examines this measure in the context of several rational setups, including a Lucas
model, and this measure of illiquidity can be large and variable. We cannot use his results here because his definition
of liquidity allows the interest rate to change when equity prices change, unlike our demand elasticity ⇣, which holds
for a given interest rate. His notion of liquidity is generally lower than our elasticity, sometimes by an infinite factor.
Indeed, take the case where there is no risk (the equity market is mispriced, so that the price is not the discounted
value of the known dividend). In our model, the elasticity of demand is infinite (see Proposition 8), as it would be in
most models with a riskless arbitrage opportunity, but Johnson’s liquidity measure remains finite. In addition, we
account for human capital, which is absent in Johnson’s definition, and is quantitatively important.


                                                             79
that it is 40 times larger than the empirical one. In Section I we verify numerically that a similar
reasoning works for long run risks models (Bansal and Yaron (2004)). We suspect that it would
also apply to a habit formation model (Campbell and Cochrane (1999)).82,83

Proof of Proposition 8 Case 1: Gaussian risk. We first deal with the case of Gaussian risk, for
simplicity in the continuous-time limit. The desired holding of risky wealth is ✓t = ⇡t2 . Initially,
that holding was ✓t = 1: all wealth (human wealth and wealth capitalized in the stock market) is
risky, with equal riskiness. This implies that  2
                                                  = ⇡ initially. But after the change in the equity
premium, the desired change in equity share is: d✓ = d⇡2 , i.e.
                                                    d⇡
                                                       .   d✓ =                               (82)
                                                     ⇡
The consumer can sell his wealth for Pt , so that his market wealth is Wt = QPt , where Q is the
total number of shares (of which QE are in equities, the rest in human wealth, i.e. promises to a
stream of labor income). His dollar demand for risky assets is Wt ✓t , so that in number of shares
this is:                                                     ✓        ◆
                              D   Wt       QPt                      ⇡
                            Q =      ✓t =      ✓t = Q✓t = Q 1 +         .
                                  Pt        Pt                     ⇡
All the trading is in the equity market, so that this net demand for equities is:
                                                                        ⇡
                                                           Q=Q            .
                                                                       ⇡
This flow, expressed as a fraction of the equity market (which has a number of shares QE = Q),
is also:
                                              Q      ⇡
                                                 =     .                                      (83)
                                             QE      ⇡
If the value of equity changes by p, the equity premium changes by ⇡ =        p (see (18)), so we
have
                                         Q
                                          E
                                            =      p = ⇣ r p,
                                        Q        ⇡
where the rational elasticity is:
                                                           ⇣r =           .
                                                                      ⇡
Finally, consumption is Ct = Yt , while aggregate stock dividends are only Dt QE = Yt .84 So,
                                                       Dt
                                                                          Ct      Ct
                                     ⇣r =         = D PQtE       =         E
                                                                                = E ,
                                              ⇡       t
                                                             ⇡        (Pt Q ) ⇡  Wt ⇡
                                                      Ct
  82
     One could imagine other models, with idiosyncratic risk, but that would take us far afield.
  83
     As a correlate, traditional models counterfactually predict very correlated flows and beliefs. Indeed, with several
institutions and a demand qit = ⇣ r pt +fit⌫ , and ⇣ r ' 20, the term ⇣ r pt has an annual volatility of ⇣ r r = 20⇥0.15 = 3,
or 300% per year. However, the annual volatility of equity holdings changes, we have seen, is about qi ' 2%. Hence,
to account for the empirical facts, we would need extremely volatile flows and demand changes fit⌫ of about 300%.
In contrast, empirical flows fit (when they can be measured) are about 1%. Hence, we would need almost perfectly
correlated news and taste shocks ⌫it , of 300% per year. All of this strikes us as quite implausible. It seems like a
very diﬃcult challenge to fit our facts with a traditional model.
  84
     This is true in the logic of the Lucas tree model with no investment. In the calibration, we take the “fruit” to be
consumption, which less than GDP as there is investment (in a closed economy), and indeed we take Ct = 0.8Yt .


                                                                 80
which is the announced expression.
    Case 2: Disaster risk. The reasoning is the same, except that expression (82) is diﬀerent with
                                                                                           W1
disaster risk. To derive it, observe that the value function must take the form V (Wt ) = K 1t for
some constant K. Hence, calling R̃t+1 the rate of return on stocks, the consumer’s problem is:
                                           ⇣          ⇣       ⇣           ⌘⌘⌘
                       max u (C) + EV (Wt Ct ) Rf + ✓ R̃t+1 Rf
                           C,✓
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                   (Rf +✓(R̃t+1 Rf ))
It entails the following sub-problem for portfolio choice: max✓ E                          1
                                                                                                            . Calling
r̃t+1 = RRt+1
           f
                  1 the normalized excess return on stocks, the problem is
                                               "                #
                                                 (1 + ✓r̃t+1 )1
                                        max E                     ,
                                          ✓          1
so the FOC characterizing the equity share is:
                                     ⇥                          ⇤
                                   E (1 + ✓r̃t+1 )         r̃t+1 = 0.                                            (84)
This expression holds for any i.i.d. excess return distribution r̃t+1 . In particular, it recovers the
traditional expression ✓ = ⇡ 2 in the Gaussian case, r̃t = ⇡ t+"t (this is an exercise for the reader).
Now take the disaster case,
                                       r̃t = ⇡ t (1 B) Jt
where ⇡ is the equity premium conditional on no disasters, where Jt = 0 if there is no disaster and
1 otherwise. Then (84) becomes
        1       pD t (1 + ✓⇡ t)    ⇡ t + pD t (1 + ✓ (⇡ t          (1    B)))       (⇡ t       (1   B)) = 0,
i.e. taking the small     t ! 0 limit,
                                    ⇡ = pD (1    ✓ (1    B))     (1     B) .                                     (85)
Taking logs on both sides and diﬀerentiating this expression (for small changes in ⇡ and ✓) around
✓ = 1 gives:
                 d⇡                ⇥                             ⇤     (1 B)
                    = d ln ⇡ = d ln pD (1 ✓ (1 B)) (1 B) =                     d✓,
                  ⇡                                                      B
i.e.
                                             d⇡     B
                                        d✓ =                                                   (86)
                                              ⇡ (1 B)
   Finally, as ⇡ = pD B (1 B) by (85), the risk premium in a full sample (including an average
number of disasters) is: ⇡
                         ¯ = ⇡ pD (1 B) = pD (B      1) (1 B), so ⇡⇡¯ = 1 B . So (86) gives
                                                 d⇡ B (1       B )
                                          d✓ =                     ,                                             (87)
                                                  ⇡
                                                  ¯   (1       B)
which is the disaster counterpart to (82): how the desired equity share changes as the equity
premium changes.
   The rest of the derivation is exactly as in the lognormal Case 1, replacing (82) by (87).
   In a behavioral model agents may have wrong beliefs, but they strongly act on their beliefs, with
the same elasticity as in rational models (replacing the equity premium ⇡ by the perceived equity
premium).

                                                    81
G      Theory Complements
G.1      The model with many asset classes
We can easily extend the model to K asset classes, indexed by A 2 {1, . . . , K}, such as stocks,
long-term government bonds, and long-term corporate bonds. This way, we can study cross-market
contagion eﬀects, and the impact of those on real investment.

Two-period model We sketch this for the two-period model of Section 3.1.
    The mandate leads to the following demand for asset A (at least, for some small deviations from
0 in d and p):                                                     !
                                                XK
                            PA Q DA = ✓A W exp      D
                                                     AB (dB    pB ) .
                                                        B=1

For instance, if D
                  AB = 0 the mixed fund seeks to keep a constant share ✓A in asset A. When AB is
                                                                                                D

diﬀerent from 0, a change in the risk premium in asset B leads to a change in the amount allocated
to asset A.
    Suppose that there are shocks changing the prices and expected dividends for a given set
                                                                                           Pof assets
by fractions indexed as pB and dB . Then, the value of the fund changes by w = W = f + B ✓B pB ,
                                                                                 W

so that the demand for a particular asset class A changes by a fraction85
                                        X                 X
                               qAD =       ⇣AB pB + fA +      D
                                                               AB dB ,                           (88)
                                             B                    B

where the cross-elasticities of demand ⇣AB express how demand for asset A changes with a change
in the price of asset B: ⇣AB = 1A=B ✓B + D  AB . In vector form, this gives

                                             q=    ⇣p + f + D d,                                           (89)

where now q, p, d, f are vectors, and ⇣ and D are matrices, with dimension K. This generalizes
Proposition 2. So, the equilibrium after a change in flows and expected dividends (but still constant
asset supply is):
                                         p = ⇣ 1 f + D d .                                      (90)
   In this paper we shall not measure, for example, how much the price of long-term bonds aﬀects
the demand for stocks. But one can readily contemplate a host of interesting cross-market eﬀects.
For instance, when investors sell stocks and invest in long-term bonds, bond yields will go down,
which encourages firms to invest. Hence, we see an impact from stocks to corporate bonds, to real
investment, and to GDP.

Infinite horizon model The formulas of the papers extend again, replacing scalars by matrices.
For instance, the demand is

                                 qt =    ⇣pt + ft + D det + Et [pt+1     pt ] ,
  85
    With just one fund, fA is the same across assets classes A. But with several funds, by aggregation, fA diﬀers
across asset classes so we use that more general notation.



                                                       82
where qt ,ft , dt , pt are vectors and , D , ⇣ are matrices. In equilibrium, qt = 0 at all dates, so that
                                pt = (⇣ + ) 1 Et [pt+1 ] + ft + D det .
Defining the matrix ⇢:
                                                  ⇢ :=  1 ⇣,                                         (91)
we have
                                pt = a ft + D det + (1 + ⇢) 1 Et [pt+1 ]
with a = (⇣ + ) 1 . Solving forward, we have the multi-asset equivalent of (20):
                                            1
                                            X         1
                                 pt = E t                            D e
                                                         ⌧ t af⌧ + a d⌧ .                            (92)
                                            ⌧ =t
                                                 (1 + ⇢)
                                                    f                                         p          p
In the AR(1) case where ft = (1         f ) ft 1 + "t , with    f a matrix now, we have pt = bf ft with bf
a matrix equal to:
                                             1
                                             X
                                     bpf =       (1 + ⇢) h a (1      f)
                                                                          h
                                                                              .                       (93)
                                         h=0
In general, there is no closed form, but bpf can be computed iteratively as:
                                     bpf = a + (1 + ⇢) 1 bpf (1       f) .                            (94)

G.2       The model with time-varying market inelasticity
Here we study the model with a time-varying market elasticity.
   Suppose we have a time-varying ⇣t and t but (for simplicity), a constant ⇢ = ⇣tt . For simplicity,
we assume Et de⌧ = 0. Then, we have the following variant of Proposition 5 (the derivation is similar):
                                               1
                                               X         ⇢        f⌧ + ⌫⌧
                                    pt = E t                ⌧ t+1         .                           (95)
                                               ⌧ =t
                                                    (1 + ⇢)          ⇣ ⌧

   To be concrete, we study the case
                          1   1
                            = (1 + Mt ) ,              Et Mt+1 = (1               ⇣ ) Mt ,
                         ⇣t   ⇣
so that Mt is a temporary increase in market inelasticity, mean-reverting at a speed ⇣ . We consider
the impact of a permanent inflow, f⌧ = f0 for ⌧ 0. Then the price follows, at t 0,
                                            ✓                ◆
                                         f0          ⇢
                                    pt =      1+          Mt .                                  (96)
                                         ⇣        ⇢+ ⇣
So, if the flow f0 happens during a time of high market inelasticity ⇣10 (i.e. high M0 ), then the
price impact is higher, which makes sense. It is the average future value of the inelasticity shifter
( ⇢+⇢ ⇣ M0 ) that matters, rather than the current inelasticity shifter (M0 ). In the scenario above,
the price impact of f0 mean-reverts at a speed ⇣ .
     More generally (if ⇣ > f ), this implies that returns that happened during a high-volatility
period mean-revert faster.
     A tentative calibration. With ⇢ = 0.16/year and ⇣ = 0.15/year, we have ⇢+⇢ ⇣ ' 0.5, so have
then to get a price impact higher by a factor 0.5, we need Mt = 0.5  0.5
                                                                         = 1, i.e. a halving of ⇣t . This
eﬀect might be detectable, though not easily.

                                                       83
G.3     Micro versus macro elasticity: The cross-section of stocks
We generalize to a model with several stocks. This allows us to distinguish between the macro
elasticity of demand for stocks, ⇣, and the micro-elasticity ⇣ ? . The upshot is that the eﬀects are
the same, but with higher demand elasticity in the cross-section ⇣ ? > ⇣ than in the aggregate. We
recommend skipping this section at the first reading.

G.3.1    Stock-level demands
We call Pat the price of the stock, and pat its deviation from the baseline (as we did for the aggregate
market). We define p? a = pa     p as the asset-a specific price deviation. Likewise, all “perpendicular”
terms are the deviation of stock a from the aggregate stock market. We define ⇡at   ?
                                                                                       = ⇡ta    a ⇡t as the
deviation of the equity premium of asset a from the CAPM benchmark (this could be generalized
of course), and ⇡ ?
                ˆat = ⇡at?
                             ⇡¯a? as its deviation from the average.
    We start from a model of stock-level demand for stock a (as in asset), which comes from a
“tracking error” type of mandate: the fraction in equities allocated to asset a is
                                       Pat Qat         ? ?     ? ?   ?
                                               = ✓aE e ⇡ˆat +✓ pa +⌫a .                                 (97)
                                        Pt Q t
Indeed, Pat Qat is the dollar demand for asset a, and Pt Qt is the dollar demand for the aggregate
stock market. On average, their ratio is ✓aE . The term ? is the micro-elasticity of demand with
respect to the anomalous part of the equity premium ⇡      ?
                                                          ˆat . The term ✓? indicates a concern for
tracking error: if the fraction allocated to asset a is constant, then ✓? = 0 (this is the baseline
case). However, if the number of shares allocated to asset a is constant, then ✓? = 1.
    Calling qat = QQ̄ata 1 the deviation of the demand from the baseline, and qat
                                                                               ?
                                                                                  = qat qt how much
asset a deviates from the baseline, we obtain the following counterpart to Proposition 4 (the proof
is in Appendix F).

Proposition 9. (Demand for individual stocks in the infinite-horizon model) The demand change
(compared to the baseline) for an individual asset a is qat = qt + qat
                                                                     ?
                                                                       , where qt is the demand change
for the aggregate stock market seen in Proposition 4, and qat is the asset-a specific demand change,
                                                             ?

given by                                                    ⇥ ? ⇤
                            ?
                          qat = ⇣ ? p?at + 
                                             ?
                                               de,?    ?
                                                at +  Et      pa,t+1 + ⌫at?
                                                                                                  (98)
where ⇣ ? is the micro-elasticity of demand for individual stocks:

                                            ⇣? = 1     ✓ ? + ? .                                        (99)

Proof. Equation (97) implies
                                    ?
                                   qat =     ✓ ? p?
                                             1            ? ?
                                                    at +  ⇡
                                                                    ?
                                                             ˆat + ⌫at .                         (100)
                                           ⇥        ⇤     ⇣            ⌘               ⇥ ? ⇤
                                                              e,?              e,?
Likewise, the analogue of (18) is ⇡ ?
                                  ˆat = E t p?a,t+1   +     d at   p a , with dat := Et da,t+1 . Com-
                                                                     ?

bining the two gives the announced expression.
    This is exactly the same equation as the one for the aggregate stock market, but now in terms
of stock-specific deviations. Hence, the economics of the aggregate stock market works for the
individual stocks, but in “perpendicular space”, i.e. replacing ⇣, pt , qt by ⇣ ? , p?
                                                                                     at , qat , and so on. For
                                                                                           ?



                                                     84
instance, the equilibrium value of the price p?  at is as in Proposition 5, replacing ⌫t by ⌫a . We next
                                                                                                ?

spell this out and draw consequences. See Betermier et al. (2019) for an alternative demand-based
model of the cross-section of stocks.Micro-elasticity of demand versus macro-elasticity of demand
    Suppose that there is a “stock specific flow”, whereby someone buys Fa? worth of stock a, while
selling Fa? of the aggregate stock market, so that the total change in the demand for aggregate
                                                                 ?
stocks is 0. The asset-a specific fractional inflow is fa? = PaFQaa , where Pa Qa is the (pre-flow) market
value of stock a. As net demand is 0, we must have qat     ?
                                                             + fa? = 0. So, the impact of a flow is:
                                                              fa?
                                                       p?
                                                        a =       ,                                   (101)
                                                              ⇣?
where ⇣ ? is the price micro-elasticity of demand (99). We see that the price impact is ⇣1? , not ⇣1 .

Calibration Most papers have estimated the micro-elasticity of demand, ⇣ ? (Shleifer (1986),
Wurgler and Zhuravskaya (2002), Duﬃe (2010), Chang et al. (2014), Koijen and Yogo (2019)),
while the present paper is about the macro-elasticity of demand, ⇣. Indeed, the literature finds
⇣ ? ' 1, with estimates in the 0.5 to 10 range. It makes sense that the macro-elasticity should be
much smaller than the micro-elasticity, ⇣ ⌧ ⇣ ? . One way to rationalize this is to set ✓? ' 0.2 for
the inertia or concern for tracking error term, = 4%, and ? = 5.86

Micro versus macro price impact In the following illustrations, we take a micro elasticity
⇣ ? = 1 and a macro elasticity ⇣ = 0.2.
     Consider what happens if an investor decides to buy $1 worth of Apple shares, while selling $1
worth of Google shares. Then, the market value of Apple goes up by $1 (that is, $1 ⇥ ⇣1? ), and
that of Google falls by the same $1. But the aggregate value of equities does not change, as the net
demand for aggregate equities has not changed.
     Next, suppose that an investor buys $1 of a very small stock (selling $1 worth of bonds), call it
Peanut. Then, the market value of that Peanut stock goes up by $1, and the market value of the
aggregate stock market goes up by $5 – so the aggregate market value of the other stocks increases
by $4.
     If the consumer buys $1 of Apple, or any non-infinitesimal stock, the aggregate value of equities
still increases by $5, but the market value of Apple goes up by slightly more than $1 (indeed, if
Apple were the whole market, its would increase by $5). To see all this analytically, consider a flow
fa = PaFQaa into just one asset a, which accounts for a fraction !a of the total equity capitalization.
We do that in the two-period model, so we drop t (this is equivalent to doing that for the infinite-
horizon model, but assuming permanent inflows). The corresponding aggregate flow is f = !a fa ,
so that the impact on the aggregate market is p = f⇣ , or
                                                            !a fa
                                                      p=          .
                                                             ⇣
The stock-specific flow to asset a is fa? = fa f = (1 !a ) fa . Hence, the stock-specific impact is:
     fa?
 a = ⇣ ? = ⇣ ? fa . Hence, the total impact is pa = p + pa , or
           1 !a
p?                                                       ?

                                               ✓        ◆
                                           fa    1    1
                                     pa = ? +              !a fa .                            (102)
                                           ⇣     ⇣ ⇣?
 86
      This ratio of price impact of roughly 1 to 5 is also consistent with Benzaquen et al. (2017).


                                                           85
For the other stocks b 6= a, we have fb? = f = !a fa , so the impact is:
                                  ✓        ◆
                                    1    1
                             pb =            !a fa , for a stock b 6= a.                                              (103)
                                    ⇣ ⇣?

As ⇣ < ⇣ ? , the cross-impact is positive.
    For instance, suppose that Apple’s capitalization is !a = 5% of the stock market. Then, if
someone buys $1 of Apple (selling bonds), the market value of Apple increases by $1.2,87 and the
value of the aggregate equities still increases by $5 – so, the aggregate value of all the other stocks
increases by $3.8. This is a moderate deviation from the above “small stock” Peanut benchmark.

Infinite-horizon model for the cross-section The infinite horizon model is exactly as above,
                                                                 ?        ?                   ?
but in “perpendicular” (asset-specific) space. We define ⇢? = ⇣ ? = 1 ?✓ + and M D,? = 1 ✓? +? .
The stock-specific deviation is given by (20) in asset-specific space:
                                                      1
                                                      X                     ✓ ?            ◆
                                                                ⇢?           fa⌧
                                          p?
                                           a,t = Et
                                                                                    D,? e?
                                                                                 + M da⌧ .                            (104)
                                                      ⌧ =t
                                                           (1 + ⇢? )⌧ t+1    ⇣?

Conclusion: Aggregate versus cross-section We conclude that the aggregate model extends
well to the cross-section, and indeed is useful to think about the impact of flows in the cross-section
and in the aggregate in a unified manner. While most prior work has been on the estimation of the
cross-sectional elasticity ⇣ ? , the main object of interest in this study is the aggregate elasticity ⇣.

G.4        Short-term versus long-term elasticity when funds are inertial
The basic model describes price impacts and quantity adjustments assuming no inertia in funds’
reactions. Here we study what happens if funds react with some inertia: this creates additional
transitory dynamics.
    We consider the case of a homogeneous type of fund, trading only the aggregate stock and a
risk-free short-term bond. Total demand qt can change because of the inflow ft and via an “active”
demand qta :
                                          qt = qta + ft .
We model the actual active demand with inertia as:

                                                  qta = µ qta,⌫ +         t qta,v1   qta 1 ,                          (105)

where qta,v is the “virtual active demand” – the one of a non-inertial fund:

                          qta,v =        (1   ✓) pt + ˆ
                                                       ⇡t + ⌫ t =     ⇣pt +  (Ept+1           pt ) +  d t + ⌫ t ,   (106)

with µ 2 [0, 1] and      0. A frictionless investor has µ = 1. The lower µ and , the more frictional
the investor. The adjustment to flows ft is instantaneous for simplicity, and as it does not require
a “strategic” decision by the fund, which simply rescales its investment after an inflow.
    We derive quantity adjustments (the proof is by plug and verify).
                      ⇣             ⌘
 87
      Indeed, ⇣1? +       1
                          ⇣
                               1
                              ⇣?
                                        ⇥ !a = 1 + (5    1) ⇥ 5% = 1.2.


                                                                    86
Figure G.11: This figure shows the quantity adjustment of an inert fund after a change in the
aggregate stock price. It illustrates Proposition 10. If investors are inertial, there is a gradual
adjustment of the quantity over time. When there is no inertia, µ = 1 and the quantity adjustment
is instantaneous.

                                 pt                                                          qt

                            p0                                                                                                        t




                                                                                   ⇣µp0




                                                                     t                 ⇣p0
                                 0
                                       (a) Impulse                                            (b) Fund’s Quantity Response




Proposition 10. (Short-run versus long-run elasticity of demand) Suppose a fund that exhibit
inertia. Then, its short-run elasticity of demand is µ⇣, and its long-run elasticity of demand is ⇣.
More precisely, suppose that the log price of equities jumps by p0 at time 0, i.e. pt = 1t 0 p0 . Then,
at t 0, the fund’s demand change is:

                                                     qt =     ⇣ 1 + (µ         1) (1              ) t p0 ,                                       (107)

while its virtual demand is qt⌫ =                     ⇣p0 .

    Figure G.11 illustrates the dynamics. The long run demand is q1
                                                                  ⌫
                                                                     = ⇣p0 , but the impact at 0
is only µ times that, q0 = ⇣µp0 . In between there is an exponential relaxation at rate .
                       ⌫

    The next proposition derives the price impact of a flow. We also assume         < µ, which is
                                                         88
automatically true in the limit of small time intervals.

Proposition 11. (Price impact of an inflow when funds are inertial) When funds exhibit inertia,
the price impact of a permanent, unanticipated inflow f0 at time 0 is (for t 0),
                                                                                 1
                                                p t = Mt f 0 ,           Mt =      + b (1                   )t                                   (108)
                                                                                 ⇣
            1 µ
where b = µ(⇣+ )
                   and                 = µ . So, the short run price impact is M0 = ⇣1 + b, while the long run
impact is M1 = ⇣ .
                1


Proof. We conjecture a solution of the type (108). We normalize f0 =                                                    1. Plugging this in (106)
gives

           qta,v = 1 + b⇣ (1               )t + b (1                )t = 1 + b (⇣ +  ) (1                        )t = 1 + c (1          )t .

For t      0, equilibrium imposes qta + f0 = 0, i.e. qta = 1. So (105) gives, for t > 0

                       0=            qta = µ qta,⌫ +            qta,v1    qt 1 = c (                 µ + ) (1                )t 1 ,
 88                                                                        t
      In the limit of small time intervals, we replace (1                 ) in (108) by e               t
                                                                                                            .


                                                                         87
Figure G.12: This figure shows the price dynamics caused by an unanticipated time-0 demand
shock, when investors are inertial. It illustrates Proposition 11. The permanent demand shock ft
creates a permanent price change p1 = f⇣0 . If investors are inertial, there is a small extra bump b
on impact, that decays exponentially over time. When investor are not inert, b = 0 and the price
immediately jumps to its permanent value p1 .

                                  ft                                                       pt
                                                                           ⇣          ⌘
                                                                               1
                             f0                                                ⇣ +b       f0


                                                                                      1
                                                                                      ⇣ f0




                                                                 t                                                      t
                                  0                                                            0
                                       (a) Impulse                                                 (b) Price Response




which leads to      = µ . At time 0, (105) gives

                                                     q0a = µq0a,v = µ (1 + b (⇣ +  )) .

As q0a = 1, this gives b = µ(⇣+
                             1 µ
                                 )
                                   .

    Figure G.12 illustrates the dynamics
                                    ⇣     ⌘of (108). An unanticipated, permanent inflow f0 at time
0 has an immediate price impact ⇣1 + b f0 that is bigger than the long-run price impact f⇣0 . The
initial “excess reaction” bf0 dies down at the exponential rate . When funds are not inert, b = 0.
This echoes the findings in Duﬃe (2010), with a somewhat diﬀerent model.
    For µ < 1, we have > : surprisingly, the speed of price dynamics is faster than the fund-
level speed of adjustment of quantities . This is because the movements of the equity premium
creates an incentive for adjustment beyond the “mechanical” speed .89

Calibration We discuss the model calibration.90 For the fund-level inertia we take = 1/year,
so that the half-life is about 0.7 years. We also take the instantaneous sensitivity to events to be
µ = 0.5, where the calibration isn’t too sensitive to that, provided that µ > 0.1. So, the speed of
mean-reversion coming from inertia is = µ = 2/year, and the overshooting of flows on impact is,
using ⇣ = 0.16 (with ⇣ M = 0.2) and  = 1 year for illustration:
                                                      1 µ          1 0.5
                                          b=                =                    ' 0.45.
                                                     µ⇣ +    0.5 · 0.16 + 1 · 1
   The immediate price impact is ⇣1 + b = 5.4, while the permanent price impact is ⇣1 = 5. So, the
temporary bump b ⌧ ⇣1 is pretty negligible in the big picture. As the price decays as bft (1    )t ,
  89
     Imagine that the impulse is a positive inflow, which increases the price. First, the “active” part of the fund
strategy wants to sell shares, as the price is high and the equity premium low. But a low “instantaneous share” µ
creates a high initial price jump, so a very negative expected return, speeding up the selling of shares: hence, the
smaller the µ, the greater the price jump p0 , and the faster the price adjustment .
  90
     We use a “continuous time” calibration: The expressions work in continuous time, which makes calibration easier,
                                  t
replacing expressions like (1    ) by e t .


                                                                     88
the premium is b f = 0.45 · 2 · 0.5% = 0.4% (if ft = 0.5%), again a small premium. A higher inertia
(lower ) creates a bigger diﬀerence between long run and short term price impact. So, examining
inertia across investor classes is a useful avenue for future research.

Impact of anticipated and unanticipated flows when funds are partially inert We next
generalize the price as present value formula (20) and the price impact with inertia (108).

Proposition 12. (Price impact with inertial funds) When funds exhibit inertia, the price impact
of inflows dfs is:
                                          X1
                                 f 1
                            pt =      +        G (t s) Et [ fs ] ,                        (109)
                                  ⇣      s= 1

where                                      (⇣          ⌘
                                                1
                                                  +b          1
                                                           (1+⇢)⌧
                                                                    if ⌧ < 0,
                                G (⌧ ) =        ⇣
                                                                ⌧
                                                                                              (110)
                                            1
                                            ⇣
                                              + b (1           )    if ⌧     0.
with ⇢ = ⇣/ is in (21), and b is in Proposition 11. When there is no inertia, b = 0.

Proof. This can be checked by the “plug and verify” method for market clearing, qt = 0.

Heterogeneity in inertia across funds One can generalize this model to the case of hetero-
geneous inertial funds. Things are particularly tractable when i is the same across funds i (but
µi , ⇣i , i could be diﬀerent): then (108) holds, with more complex expressions for b and .

G.5     On the link between the Kyle lambda and the market inelasticity
G.5.1   Theory: Kyle’s lambda versus inelasticity
Suppose that within a certain time window, there is an “order flow” (realized signed trades), with
volume ft expressed as a fraction of the market capitalization. A typical micro structure regression
is, as in Evans and Lyons (2002); Hasbrouck (2007):

                                 pt   pt 1 =      ( ft         Et 1 [ ft ])                   (111)

where is the so-called “Kyle lambda”, from Kyle (1985). We analyze what that regression would
estimate in our model.
    We suppose that our model holds, and that there is completely symmetric information about
fundamentals – so, we remove the informational ingredient of Kyle. Still, trades will move prices –
because of inelasticity. We clarify this here. As we mentioned above, a very important diﬀerence
is that in Kyle flows do not change the equity premium on average, whereas in our model, positive
inflows lower the equity premium.
    To analyze what happens in our model, we suppose some autocorrelation in the order flow (like
Madhavan et al. (1997), Lillo et al. (2005) and Bouchaud et al. (2018)):

                                      ft = (1          g)     f t 1 + "t ,                    (112)




                                                   89
where "t is i.i.d. So, an innovation "t creates an innovation to the eventual cumulative flow:91
                                                                                          1
                                   lim Et [ft+h          ft 1 ] = K"t ,              K=          .
                                   h!1                                                       g

For instance, if a large desired trade (“meta-order”) is on average “sliced” into 15 trades, executed
slowly over time, then K = 15. Likewise, if a fast fund trades, and is followed on average by similar
or “copycat” meta-orders by two other funds, then K = 3.92 The two forces combine: if a fund
splits its meta-order in five trades, and it is followed by two more similar funds doing a similar
trade (also splitting their trade into five chunks), then K = 5 ⇥ 3 = 15, the product of the number
of “similar” funds (3 in this example), and the number of “chunks” in which they split their trade
(5 in this example).
    In our model, the total price impact is, in the limit of small time intervals,93
                                                  K      K
                                         pt =       "t =   ( ft             Et 1 [ ft ]) .
                                                  ⇣      ⇣

Hence, an econometrician estimating (111), will find:

                                                                    K
                                                              =       .                                                                    (113)
                                                                    ⇣

This means that, for the aggregate market, the Kyle lambda is the inelasticity ⇣1 times the persistence
parameter K associated with the positive autocorrelation of the order flow.
    Most empirical work in micro structure is done at the level of one asset, so that the they
estimate is
                                                  K
                                                = ?,                                              (114)
                                                  ⇣
where    ?
             is the micro-elasticity of Section G.3.
  91
    Indeed, "t creates an innovation to the cumulative flow ft+h equal to
                                                         ⇣                                                    ⌘       "t ⇣                       ⌘
                                                                                                          h                                h+1
 Et [ft+h ft 1 ] = Et [ ft + ft+1 + · · · + ft+h ] = "t 1 + (1     g ) + · · · + (1                  g)           =          1   (1   g)             .
                                                                                                                       g


  92
     More generally (such as in models with multiple time scales, or some form of long memory, see Bouchaud et
al. (2018)), K is the “expected value of related orders, given the past”. So, the estimation of K is a bit delicate,
and not simply the inverse of the speed of mean-reversion of orders. Formally, with "t := ft Et 1 [ ft ], K =
@"t limh!1 Et [ft+h
 @
                       ft 1 |"t ]. For instance, if we have (35)

                                                            k
                                                            X
                                                     ft =         a l f t l + "t ,
                                                            l=1

then the total innovation is K = 1 P1k          . We use this in Section 4.2.
                                       l=1 al
  93
    Away from the limit of small time intervals, the calculation is the following. The price is pt = Aft 1 + B ft for
two coeﬃcients A, B to determine. Calculations based on Proposition 5 (plug in that expression in (19) with qt = 0)
                       1+ 
show: A = ⇣1 and B = ⇣+ ⇣ g . So, in the limit of small time intervals (as in Section G.12.2), with  = / t ! 1,
and ⇣ constant (as   =     t,  is constant as       t ! 0), we get B ! ⇣ 1 g = K
                                                                                ⇣ , i.e.                  ⇣ "t .
                                                                                                     pt = K




                                                                  90
G.5.2     Empirical values from the micro structure literature
Frazzini et al. (2018) find that buying 2.5% of the daily volume of a stock creates a permanent price
impact p = 15bp (indeed, it creates a total price impact of 18bp, of which 85% is permanent,
see their Figures 2 and 6). Using an annual turnover of 100%, and 250 trading days per year, this
means that buying a fraction q = 2.5% ⇥ 250      1
                                                   = 1bp of the stock creates a 15bp price impact.
                              94
Hence, their Kyle lambda is
                                              p    15bp
                                          =      =        ' 15.
                                              q     1bp
Hence, the prima facie “micro structure” price impact is ' 15.95 This can be compared with our
own M ' 5. However, in terms of our model, their reflects the micro-elasticity rather than the
macro-elasticity: it is = ⇣K? . As we calibrate ⇣ ? ' 1, this leads to K ' 15. This estimate has the
interpretation, in inelastic markets with a micro elasticity of 1, that a large market-wide desired
trade (“meta-order”) is on average split into 15 smaller trades executed over time, by one or several
institutions collectively (for example, by three funds pursuing a similar strategy, each splitting their
desired position change into five smaller trades).
    This factor K > 10 may seen surprisingly large, but it is consistent with micro structure data.
Bouchaud et al. (2018) report a positive autocorrelation of the decay in the signed of trades "t =
sign ( ft ), qualitatively consistent with the above model. Importantly, it is also roughly quantita-
tively consistent too. The empirical correlation between the signs of trades, c (h) = corr ("t , "t+h ),
                                                                             P103               96
is approximately c (h) ' h0.251/2 for h 2 [1, 10 ], which leads to K = 1 +
                                                3
                                                                                h=1 c (h) = 16.    This
means that a buy trade today announces 15 more buy trades in the future – a large empirical
autocorrelation of market orders. We explain this, in this section, by order splitting and copycat
trades (which is also Bouchaud et al. (2018)’s interpretation – here we also relate it to the micro
elasticity ⇣ ? of the market, by (114)). This gives, we think, a potentially satisfactory unification
of the very high impact measured impact of the micro structure literature, and the more moderate
impact measured in inelastic markets.
    One lesson is that the market micro structure literature finds price impacts that are larger than
the ones we find (with a price impact multiplier over 15), which may help dispel some feeling that
our estimates are too large. By estimating things at a low frequency, and using a model taking
into account the autocorrelation of the order flow, we can structurally relate their price impact
estimates to the market micro-inelasticity (since most of the micro structure literature is about the
micro elasticity, not the macro elasticity).
  94
     In practice, the measured price impact is not linear, and indeed looks more concave, perhaps like a square root,
which may be due to slower trading of large orders (Torre and Ferrari (1998); Gabaix et al. (2003, 2006); Bouchaud
et al. (2018)). We think that this elaboration is beyond the scope of this appendix.
  95
     Frazzini et al. (2018) also explore the Trades And Quotes (TAQ) data, and find a price impact about 2.5 times
bigger (see their Figure 7). This would would then lead to ' 37. In our discussion we use their baseline estimate,
which is instead constructed using trading data from AQR, a large institutional asset manager.
  96
     See their Figure 10.1. This model has a power law decay rather than an exponential decay, because it is a mixture
of several exponential decay. Also, a limitation is that Bouchaud et al. (2018) study the sign of flows, whereas our
model would like the signed traded, including their size.




                                                         91
G.6     The model in continuous time
                       ⇥ t ⇤ Et [dpt ]            ⇥      ⇤                                  ⇥ t⇤
We use the notation Et dpdt
                            = dt := limh#0 Et pt+hh pt . So, if dpt = µt dt+ t dZt , then Et dp
                                                                                              dt
                                                                                                 =
µt . Here we record the main expressions in continuous time. The equity premium
                                            
                                              dPt        Dt
                                   ⇡t = E t        /dt +     rf                               (115)
                                              Pt         Pt
has the Taylor expansion:
                                              dpt
                                       ˆ t = Et
                                       ⇡          + (dt pt ) .                                            (116)
                                               dt
We have:                                               
                                                         dpt
                               qt =   ⇣pt +  dt + Et       + ⌫t + ft ,
                                                         dt
which in equilibrium (with qt = 0) leads to the stock price equation:
                                  
                                    dpt                 ⌫t + ft
                               Et           ⇢pt + dt +          = 0.                                      (117)
                                     dt                    
Integrating forward, the stock price is:
                             Z 1           ✓                    ◆
                                             ⇢
                 pt = E t         e ⇢(⌧ t)
                                               (f⌧ + ⌫⌧ ) + d⌧ d⌧                                         (118)
                               t             ⇣
                                                   Z 1                            !
                                 1                                f˙⌧ + ⌫˙ ⌧
                      =     dt + (ft + ⌫t ) + Et        e ⇢(⌧ t)             + d˙⌧ d⌧.                    (119)
                          ⇢      ⇣                  t                 ⇣       ⇢

    This allows for easier calculations than the discrete time model. For instance, suppose that
flows and dividends follow autoregressive process, e.g. dft =    f ft dt + t dZt (for dZt a mean-zero
increment process, e.g. a Brownian motion). Then we have Et [f⌧ ] = e f (⌧ t) ft for ⌧ t, so (118)
gives:
                                ⇢ ft                    1               
                        pt =           +       dt =          ft +          dt .                 (120)
                             ⇢+ f ⇣      ⇢+ d        ⇣ + f       ⇣ + d
which is the continuous time equivalent of (26).
   Combining (120) and (22) leads to:
                                           ˆt = b⇡f ft + b⇡d dt ,
                                           ⇡                                                              (121)
                                                                                    (1 ✓)
with b⇡f < 0 and b⇡d > 0. In the random walk case, b⇡f =            ⇣
                                                                        and b⇡d =     ⇣
                                                                                          , while in the general
                      ( + f )⇢ 1            (1 ✓)
case, we have b⇡f =     ⇢+ f ⇣
                                 and b⇡d = ⇣+  d
                                                  .



G.7     Infinite horizon model with heterogeneous funds
When there are several funds trading stocks, the setup is very similar to the case of a single mixed
fund, but with indices i for each fund. Fund i’s mandate says that the fraction invested in equities,
Pt Qt
 Wit
      , is:
                                         Pt Q D
                                              it
                                                 = ✓i ei ⇡ˆt +⌫it ,                           (122)
                                          Wit

                                                    92
where as before ⇡         ¯ is the deviation of the equity premium from its average, and we allow
                 ˆt := ⇡t ⇡
for additional demand shocks, ⌫it . Dividends and bond coupons are passed on to consumer, so that
retained dividends would be counted as active flows.
    Diﬀerentiating the demand for stocks (122) we get:

                                         ln Qit =      ln Wit             ln Pt + i ⇡
                                                                                     ˆt .

      Now, from accounting the evolution of wealth of fund i is:

                                               Wit = Qi,t 1 Pt +                Fit ,
that is,
                             Wit        Qi,t 1 Pt 1 Pt   Fit            Pt   Fit
                                    =                  +     = ✓i,t 1      +      ,
                           Wi,t 1        Wi,t 1 Pt 1 Wi,t 1           Pt 1 Wi,t 1
so:
                                                     Fit                                                          Fit
           ln Qit =   (1     ✓i,t 1 )    ln Pt +            + i ⇡
                                                                 ˆt =           (1      ✓i,t 1 ) pt + i ⇡
                                                                                                         ˆt +            .
                                                   Wi,t 1                                                       Wi,t 1

   We use the linearization of the risk premium (18), ⇡
                                                      ˆt = (det pt ) + Et [ pt+1 ]. So, linearizing
throughout,
                     ln Qit = (1 ✓i,t 1 +  ) pt +  Et [ pt+1 ] + fit ,
with:
                                                     Fit
                                           fit =             (1      ✓i,t 1 )      ln P̄t .                                  (123)
                                                    Wit
    For instance, in the AR(1) model (26), we have Et [ pt+1 ] =      pt , so  Et [ pt+1 ] =  pt .
This definition of the flow is slightly diﬀerent from that in (17): definition (123) is more useful
for empirical work, and (17) for the equilibrium price. They are obviously very close. They are
identical to the leading order when the baseline economy has a growth rate of zero. One can also
verify directly that the two expressions are consistent in the case of the mixed fund.

G.8        Complements to the general equilibrium model
G.8.1      The model with government bonds
We propose a way to include bonds. We assume that the government issues at the beginning
of period t bonds in quantities Bt . They are financed via lump-sum taxes: the tax at time t is
Tt = Rf,t 1 Bt 1 Bt , as taxes pay for the maturing bond value, Rf,t 1 Bt 1 , minus new bond
issuance, Bt . We assume that the government issued debt in amount:
                                                             1       ⇥
                                                     Bt =                W̄tE                                                (124)
                                                                 ⇥
for some ⇥ > 0, and where W̄tE = Dt is the aggregate value of equities in the baseline model. This
way, in the baseline model, total financial wealth is W̄tE + Bt = ⇥1 W̄tE , and a fraction ⇥ of wealth is
in equities, while the rest (1 ⇥) is in government bonds. In short, the government issues enough
bonds to maintain a share 1 ⇥ of bonds as a fraction of total financial wealth.



                                                             93
   With this additional feature of the model, everything remains the same, except that the average
equity premium is
                                            ¯ = ⇥ r2 .
                                            ⇡                                                (125)
The calibration can be modified in a parsimonious way: we target a average aggregate equity share
⇥ = 0.6, and increase by a factor ⇥1 to keep ⇡¯ constant, changing accordingly to keep the same
interest rate rf in the consumption Euler equation (58). Nothing else needs to change.

G.8.2    Details of the household’s problem in general equilibrium: the consumer’s part
         of the household
The consumer part of the household only decides on consumption, which entails withdrawing money
from the pure bond fond. The consumption decision is made under fully rational choice: as discussed
in the main text, this ensures that the standard consumption Euler equation for bonds holds,
       ⇣      ⌘
         Ct+1
Et        Ct
                Rf t = 1. Here we detail how this happens. We adopt a formulation based on
mental accounts that makes this idea portable to other contexts.
    The household has, at the beginning of period t, a “consumption account” with wealth wt (this
might be, for example, a checking account), and a “financial wealth account” that holds a quantity
  t of bonds (with a dollar value of 1) and a quantity Qt of equity shares. We let Qt = Qt , Qt .
                                                            E                                    E
QB                                                                                           B

While the aggregate bond holding of the household is Qt + wt , we posit that its two components
                                                            B

are not fully interchangeable because of the presence of mental accounts. One can think of wt
as being small (in equilibrium, it will be 0), and QB   t as being big. We drop the superscript h in
this section for simplicity whenever there is no ambiguity, but all the quantities refer to a given
household h (which will be the representative household in equilibrium). Also, we directly refer to
the ultimate assets held, as the household is assumed to be smart enough to “see through” the veil
of mutual fund intermediation. Recall that Zt is the macro state vector (see Definition 1), and we
call Zth = Zt , QB
                 t , Qt , wt the state vector specific to household h.
                      E

    The evolution of wealth in the consumption account is

                                      wt+1 = Rf t wt + Yth     Ct ,                                 (126)

where
                             Yth = QB           E
                                    t rf,t 1 + Qt Dt + ⌦t     Tt =: Y Zth                           (127)
is the aggregate income to the household, coming from its “financial dividend” stream (from bonds in
the financial account, QB
                        t rf,t 1 , as well as equities, Qt Dt ), plus residual income ⌦t (e.g., comprising
                                                         E

labor income), minus Tt .
    The consumer’s problem is to maximize lifetime utility, subject to this dynamic budget con-
straint. Crucially, we assume that when the consumer does that, she takes the income Yth as
exogenous to her consumption decisions: in this sense, the decisions of the consumer and financier
sides of the households are decoupled. So, as in any consumption-saving problem, the consumer’s
Euler equation for bonds holds, (47). But the consumer does not see that as she consumes more,
and hence lowers the amount of bonds in the household’s holdings, she will induce a (typically
small) flow from stocks to bonds in the financier side of the household, so that Qt+1 is aﬀected.
In equilibrium, wt = 0 and Yth = Yt = Ct at all dates, as the representative household consumes
aggregate income.


                                                   94
   It might be helpful to also state this same argument using dynamic programming. Namely, the
consumer side of the household solves:
                                               ⇥                               ⇤
               V wt , Zth = max u (Ct ) + E V Rf t wt + Y Zth              h
                                                                     Ct , Zt+1   ,      (128)
                                   Ct

where the law of motion of Zt+1
                            h
                                is taken by the agent to be independent of ct .    In the case of a
strategic consumer wishing to manipulate the financier part of the household, the agent would take
into account the (small) dependence on Zt+1
                                         h
                                            on ct .

G.8.3       Details of the household’s problem in general equilibrium: mutual fund shares
            accounting
This section provides some extra details on the household’s problem of Section 5.1. We call t
the beginning of period values, evaluated at the time t price Pt . The mixed fund gives a dividend
DtM = QDt + rf,t 1 BtM 1 , so that its cum-dividend value is WtM = QPt + BtM 1 + DtM , and the return
            WM
is RtM = W M
           t
             .
              t 1
       The mixed fund has issued Nt 1 shares, of which Nth 1 are owned by household h. The value of
                                         QPt +BtM 1
a share in the mixed fund is vtM =         Nt 1
                                                    . So, the beginning of period wealth of the household is:
                                                  Nth 1 M
                                        Wth =          W + Bth 1 Rf,t 1 .                                  (129)
                                                  Nt 1 t
   Suppose there are household flows Fth into the mixed fund, while flows from the rest of the
economy are Ft (in equilibrium, the two values are the same). Then, the number of shares owned
                                                       Fh
by the household and in the fund are:97 Nth = Nth 1 + vMt and Nt = Nt 1 + vMFt . The household
                                                       t                    t
holds Bth in the pure bond fund:
                                                        Nth 1 M
                                Bth = Bth 1 Rf,t 1 +         D        Ct       Fth ,
                                                        Nt 1 t
i.e. the proceeds from the pure bond fund, the dividend of the mixed fund, minus consumption,
minus the flow.
    The household’s problem, in its rational form, is:
                                                       ⇥             ⇤
                        V (Wt , Zt ) = max u (Ct ) + E V Wt+1
                                                            h
                                                               , Zt+1 .
                                              Ct ,Bth

This problem defines a consumption policy, and also desired holdings in the pure bond fund (hence,
a flow out of the bond fond).

G.8.4       On a production economy
If we had a production-based model with capital Kt , then investment It and labor demand Lt (with
 the cost of investment, w the wage) would be characterized by the following problem:
                    V (Kt , Zt ) = max{F (Kt , Lt , Zt )       w (Zt ) Lt    It       (It , Kt , Zt )     (130)
                                     It ,Lt
                                    +Et [Mt+1 V ((1          ) Kt + It , Zt+1 )]},
  97                     WM     QP +B M
    We also have vtM = Ntt =         t
                                    Nt 1
                                         t 1
                                             , BtM = BtM 1 + Ft . Flows change the number of shares issued by the
fund, but not (controlling for stock prices) the value of each fund share.


                                                        95
using the SDF Mt+1 developed in the paper (see (59)). Hence, we can trace how an inflow into
equities increases equity prices, lowers the risk premium, and increases investment. We leave the
full, quantitative analysis of this to future research, but hope that this will help economists see
more concretely how all fits together.

G.9     Linking flows to beliefs
G.9.1    Flows and perceived risk premia
We now develop a model in which flows are determined by households’ expectations of excess
returns. This simple notion turns out to be quite rich.
    We will use the following notations. We call ⇥ht the equity share of household h, and ⇥t
the aggregate equity share in the economy, and ⇥ its baseline value. We call ⇡  ˆth the perception
by household h of the excess risk premium ⇡  ˆ t = ⇡t ⇡ ¯ , and ⇡
                                                                ˆtH the perception of this excess
risk premium by the representative household. Those perceptions need not be rational. Suppose
that household h has an inflow fth into the market, while the average household has an inflow ft .
We simply consider a small, hypothetical divergence between household h and the representative
household that happened just before t. We start with with a bit of equity-share accounting.

Lemma 1. The equity share of household h is:

                                  ⇥ht = ⇥ 1 + fth       ft + (1    ⇥) pt .                                   (131)

Proof. Let us call ⇥t the aggregate equity share (this is also ✓W t in (15), but here we use a slightly
simpler notation), using (124) for the aggregate bond supply:

                                  Pt Q            P̄t Qept              ⇥ept
                        ⇥t =              =                       =                ,
                               Pt Q + B t   P̄t Qept + 1 ⇥⇥ P̄t Q   ⇥ept + 1   ⇥

so that, taking a first order expansion in small pt ,

                                        ⇥t = ⇥ (1 + (1       ⇥) pt ) .                                       (132)
                                                  fth   ft
Household h has an equity share ⇥ht = PPt Qe
                                           t Q+Bt
                                                    , as it has the same aggregate wealth as the
representative household (in the denominator), i.e., as a Taylor expansion:

                                        ⇥ht = ⇥t 1 + fth       ft .                                          (133)

Combining those two expressions gives (131).
   Let us now discuss the modeling of the flow fth of a household h that perceives the equity premium
                                                                                             1
to be ⇡
      ˆth . One natural model is that the financier optimizes over ⇥ht (with V p (W ) = W 1 1 ) the
“narrow framing” value function:

                  ⇥                            ⇤                                       1             2
          ˆth := E V p Rf t + ⇥t ⇡
  U ⇥ht , ⇡                        ˆth + "rt+1
                                 ¯+⇡             ' 1 + rf t + ⇥ht ⇡ ˆth
                                                                  ¯+⇡                      2
                                                                                           r   ⇥ht       ,   (134)
                                                                                       2



                                                    96
where "rt+1 has mean 0 and variance r2 , and the second expression is in the limit of small time
intervals. This implies a targeted equity share (using ⇡th = ⇡ ˆth ) equal to:
                                                             ¯+⇡

                                                     ⇡th     ¯ 1 + H ⇡
                                                             ⇡        ˆth
                                             ⇥ht =     2
                                                         =          2
                                                                            ,
                                                       r            r

with H = ⇡1¯ .
    This “attentive portfolio choice” formulation, while it may be appealing as it is traditional, leads
to three problems. First, in the cross-section, the attentive formulation predicts:

                                              fth    ft = H ⇡
                                                             ˆth    ˆtH ,
                                                                    ⇡                                            (135)

with a strength of H = ⇡1¯ ' 22. This is a very large pass-through from beliefs to actions, and it
contradicts both intuition (as an agent seeing a higher equity premium by 2.5% would double his
equity share), and the evidence in Giglio et al. (2021a), who instead find a passthrough H ' 2 (using
yearly units). The second problem is that, with this formulation, we cannot model a plausible agent
who would let his equity share drift passively.98 The equity share ⇥ht is always “actively managed”
by the household. The third problem is that the household is so active that it exactly cancels out
all the actions of intermediaries, i.e. of the mixed fund. Indeed, plugging this into (132) gives a
                      H ⇡
                         ˆtH
price equal to pt = (1 ⇥)    , so proportional to the risk premium ⇡ˆtH perceived by the representative
household, and independent of ⇣ and any other considerations.99
    We propose a common resolution of those three problems, which relies on “behaviorally inatten-
tive” portfolio choice. We posit that a household h is partially inattentive to some of the normatively
relevant determinants of its flow, and chooses its flow according to:

                                      max U ⇥h fth , m✓ ft , m✓ pt , m⇡ ⇡
                                                                        ˆth ,                                    (136)
                                       fth


where ⇥h fth , ft , pt = ⇥ 1 + fth ft + (1 ⇥) pt as in (131), U is in (134), m✓ 2 [0, 1] is the
attention to the rebalancing concerns, and m⇡ is the attention to one’s estimate of the risk premium.
The traditional case corresponds to m✓ and m⇡ equal to 1. However, when m✓ = 0, the household
pays no attention to rebalancing needs: it lets the portfolio drift. This sort of behavioral modeling
is tractable, it applies to a variety of micro and macro setups, and has good empirical support (see
the survey in Gabaix (2019)). We derive the resulting flows.

Proposition 13. In the above behavioral formulation, the aggregate flow is linked to the aggregate
belief ⇡
       ˆtH by:
                                      H ⇡ˆtH m✓ (1 ⇥) pt
                                 ft =                       ,                                (137)
                                              1 m✓
where:
                                                m⇡
                                           H =    .                                         (138)
                                                 ⇡
                                                 ¯
  98
     For instance, Giglio et al. (2021b) document a large fraction of investors who do not trade at all during the stock
market crash of early 2020.
  99
     In a standard model with two types of agents, both agents matter. However, here the household is the principal,
and the mixed fund the agent, so that the household in fact owns all equities, and thus (if it is active enough) it can
undo the actions of the mixed fund.



                                                             97
In the cross-section, a household h perceiving the equity premium deviation to be ⇡
                                                                                  ˆth has a flow:

                                                 fth = ft + H ⇡
                                                               ˆth      ˆtH ,
                                                                        ⇡                                       (139)

so that the cross-sectional sensitivity of flows to the equity premium is H , less that then the aggregate
                                                               H
sensitivity of flows to the equity premium is, which is 1  m✓ > H . Those two relations also imply
the following link:
                                   fth = m✓ (ft (1 ⇥) pt ) + H ⇡    ˆth .                            (140)

Proof. Given (136), at the optimal flow level we should have, with H = m⇡¯⇡ :

                                              ˆth
                                      ⇡t + m⇡ ⇡          ¯ 1 + H ⇡
                                                         ⇡        ˆth
                              ⇥ht =          2
                                                     =              2
                                                                         = ⇥ 1 + H ⇡
                                                                                    ˆth .

We also have
                       ⇥ht = ⇥h fth , m✓ ft , m✓ pt = ⇥ 1 + fth          m✓ ft + (1   ⇥) m✓ pt .
This gives (140). Finally, the flow of the representative agent satisfies fth = ft , i.e. is (137).
    We check that this formulation solves the three problems we outlined. First, the cross-household
sensitivity of flows to beliefs is smaller, and can be realistically calibrated. Intuitively, the household
does see that high perceived excess return ⇡    ˆth should lead to a high flow fth (m⇡ > 0), but doesn’t
agree that a 2.5% extra risk premium should lead it to increase its equity share from ⇥ = 60%
to 94%, as it would in the rational model (with H = ⇡1¯ = 22). Indeed, Giglio et al. (2021a)
find H ' 2.100 To match their evidence, we need to calibrate m⇡ = H ⇡            ¯ = 0.08. This means
that people might have “bold forecasts” but “timid choices”, very much as in Kahneman and Lovallo
(1993). Second, we can model a very inactive household that would let its wealth drift independently
of any perception of the risk premium: that would correspond to the case in which m✓ = m⇡ = 0.
Third, now the household does not exactly cancel the actions of the mixed fund: in (137), because
m✓ < 1, the flow’s reaction is finite, and only in the completely reactive case (m✓ = 1) the household
would completely undo the actions of the mixed fund (when m✓ ! 1, to avoid an infinite flow the
                                                                          H ⇡
                                                                             ˆH
numerator of (137) needs to go to 0, which pins the price to pt = 1 ⇥t ).

G.9.2        Application
Flows and expected risk premia: A simple specification As a simple calibration of (137),
let us take m✓ = 0. Then, we have:
                                    ft = H ⇡
                                            ˆtH ,                                  (141)
i.e. the flow is just the perceived risk premium, times the sensitivity H . If H = 2, then the
volatility of the perceived risk premium is simply the volatility of the flows, divided by H = 2, so
about 1.4% per year in our calibration (see Section 5.4). Recall that we have ft = ✓bt (see (51)).
So, this is a model where the “behavioral disturbance” is simply a time-variation in the perceived
                         H
value of equities, bt = ✓ ⇡
                           ˆth
 100                                                     d⇥h                                                    d⇥h
       For instance, column 6 of their Table III gives d⇡ht = 1.2. Given a typical ⇥ = 2/3, that leads to H = ⇥
                                                                                                               1    t
                                                                                                                 d⇡ h
                                                                                                                      =
                                                          t                                                        t
1.8.




                                                               98
Flows and expected growth of fundamentals Bordalo et al. (2020) propose that stock market
fluctuations are linked to subjective expectations of long-term growth in dividends. Let us see how
that would be linked to flows and prices in inelastic markets. Call gt the expectation of the growth
rate of dividends (expressed as a deviation from the average growth rate ḡ, so that the expected
growth rate is ḡ + gt ), and for now suppose that

                                                              ft = bfg gt ,

for some parameter bfg       0. We assume that gt mean-reverts with speed                                      , so that Et [gt+1 ] =
(1    ) gt . Then, the price deviation from the baseline is:101

                                                                 + bfg
                                                           pt =         gt ,                                                   (142)
                                                                 ⇣M
with ⇣ M = ⇣ +  . In a frictionless economy where agents hold those beliefs, the price would be
p⇤t = +1 gt . So the flow passthrough that replicates that is bf,⇤  ⇣M
                                                                g = +    . Calibrating, this gives
bg = 0.034+0.04 1 ' 2 years. If the growth rate is perceived to be 1% higher, then the flow is 2%
 f,⇤       0.2

higher.
     Now, let us see how we link the flows more deeply to explicit beliefs about returns. We find
it useful to consider that households have time-varying beliefs about the long-term growth rate of
dividends, mg gt , and the representative fund has beliefs gt . When mg > 1, the general public is
more reactive in its beliefs than institutions.
Proposition 14. The solution is as follows. Flows, prices, and the risk premium perceived by
institutions (ˆ
              ⇡t ) and households (ˆ
                                   ⇡tH ) follow:

                            ft = bfg gt ,         pt = bpg gt ,      ˆt = b⇡g gt ,
                                                                     ⇡                         ˆtH = b⇡,H
                                                                                               ⇡      g gt ,

where, with ⇣ M = ⇣ +  ,
                                                     mg H + (1 m✓ ) 
                                     bpg =                                                             ,
                                             H ( + ) + (1 m✓ ) ⇣ M + m✓ (1                       ⇥)

and bfg = ⇣ M bpg       , b⇡g = 1        ( + ) bpg , b⇡,H
                                                       g   = mg          ( + ) bpg .
Proof. The risk premium perceived by institutions is the belief ⇡
                                                                ˆtI = gt                                   ( + ) pt , so

                                                       b⇡g = 1     ( + ) bpg ,                                                 (143)

while the belief of households is ⇡
                                  ˆtH = mg gt                       ( + ) pt , so that its sensitivity to gt is b⇡,H
                                                                                                                 g   =
mg ( + ) bpg .
 101
       Indeed, replacing g by ḡ + gt in (74) we obtain (in the limit of small time intervals):

                                                ˆt = gt + Et [ pt+1 + (dt+1
                                                ⇡                                    pt )] .

We seek a solution of the type pt = bpg gt , and we also observe that the deviation of the dividend from the baseline is
simply dt+1 = 0. Plugging this in (65), setting ⌫t = 0 for simplicity, gives:

                    0   =   qt =     (1      ✓) pt + ˆ
                                                      ⇡t + f t =   (1    ✓) bpg gt +  gt        ( + ) bpg gt + bfg gt ,

which gives (142).


                                                                   99
     By market clearing in the equity market, the total demand change by the mixed fund should be
0:
               0=q=        (1                   ⇡tI =
                                  ✓) pt + ft + ˆ             (1     ✓) pt + ft +  (gt       ( + ) pt ) ,
i.e., with ⇣ M = 1    ✓ + ( + ) = ⇣ +  ,

                                               0=     ⇣ M bpg + bfg + ,

hence we recover (142),
                                                   bfg = ⇣ M bpg                                            (144)
     Finally, the flow of the representative investor is as in (137), so that:

                                  0 = (1       m✓ ) ft + (1        ⇥) m✓ pt   H ⇡
                                                                                 ˆtH ,

so

                 0 = (1         m✓ ) bfg + m✓ (1     ⇥) bpg        H b⇡,H
                                                                       g
                     = (1       m✓ ) ⇣ M bpg      + m✓ (1          ⇥) bpg    H mg       ( + ) bpg ,

and
                                                mg H + (1 m✓ ) 
                                bpg =                                                     .                  (145)
                                        H ( + ) + (1 m✓ ) ⇣ M + m✓ (1              ⇥)



An illustrative calibration To match the low passthrough from beliefs to actions in Giglio et al.
(2021a), H ' 2 years, we use m⇡ = H ⇡  ¯ = 0.08. We set the attention to rebalancing to m✓ = 0.3,
and give equal beliefs to households and institutions. This leads to b⇡g = 0.5. This means that if
agents perceive the growth rate to be 1 percentage point higher than usual, they think that the risk
premium is only 0.5 percentage points higher: they believe that the market has incorporated half
of those news. This is also in line with Giglio et al. (2021a) (Table IX). This implies that bpg = 6.6
and bfg = 0.3. This calibration is illustrative. In future research, it would be highly desirable to
quantify those parameters directly, in particular the only partial tendency of households to rebalance
(m✓ < 1).

G.10       Pricing kernel consistent with flow-based pricing: Complements
This section gives complements to the flow-based SDF of Section 5.3.

G.10.1      Basics
Much of asset pricing uses pricing kernels, or stochastic discount factors (SDFs). We show how to
express the economics of flows in inelastic markets in the language of pricing kernels. To do so, we
outline a simple general method to complete a “default” pricing kernel so that it reflects the impact
of flows on asset prices.




                                                          100
Pricing kernel completion: How to adjust a default pricing kernel to reflect the impact
of flows on asset prices For simplicity, we omit the time subscripts.
    Default pricing kernel. We allow for a “default pricing kernel”, which prices bonds at the equi-
librium interest rate Rf . The simplest is the “risk-free” default pricing kernel: Md = R1f .102
    From the default pricing kernel to the actual pricing kernel. The default pricing kernel Md will
not price assets correctly, as it does not react to flows. We propose a method of “pricing kernel
completion” that will augment the pricing kernel so that it correctly prices all assets. We posit the
existence of a very small mass " (which we will take to be infinitesimal, so that it will not impact
prices) of “agile optimizers,” who start with zero financial wealth and whose objective function is:
                                               h           0
                                                             i
                                         max E Md e Q R ,                                        (146)
                                                Q

where R is the vector of excess returns at time 1.103 That is, they maximize (over a vector Q of
holdings over all assets) their expected return R = P1P+D0
                                                           1
                                                              Rf , starting from zero wealth, but this
                                                                                 d 104
is ⇥their expected
                 ⇤ return “under the risk-neutral probability” generated by M .        Hence we have
           Q0 R
E M e  d
                R = 0. So, the following M is a pricing kernel:
                                                                0
                                                M = Md e Q R+⇠ ,                                               (147)
                                                                                                     ⇥     ⇤
where the constant ⇠ ensures that the risk-free rate is correctly priced (E [M] = E M , so ⇠ =           d

      E[ Md ]
ln E Md e Q0 R ).
    [         ]
    We call this the “completed” pricing kernel. Note that other SDFs could also work (as is generic
in incomplete markets), but the one given in (147) is the unique SDF coming from the “pricing
kernel completion” procedure. We treated here the simplest case, with just one risky asset, and the
simplest default pricing kernel Md,Rf = R1f .

Flow-based SDF for the two-period model Let us revisit the two-period model of Section
3.1. The excess equity premium is ⇡
                                  ˆ = (d p) with
                                                         f + d
                                                    p=          ,                                              (148)
                                                            ⇣
                                                                                    f˜
so that, with f = (1       ✓) d + f˜, the total equity premium is: ⇡ = ⇡
                                                                       ¯            ⇣
                                                                                       . So, the completed pricing
kernel is:                                ✓                ◆
                                                     "D                             f˜
                               M = exp        rf ⇡ 2 + ⇠ ,         ⇡=⇡ ¯              ,                        (149)
                                                         d                          ⇣
               2
with ⇠ = 2⇡ 2 if "D is Gaussian. This SDF prices correctly stocks and bonds.
              d
    This gives the “flow-based” completed pricing kernel, which is an alternative to the consumption-
based kernel of Lucas (1978). The core economics is in how flows aﬀect prices, and the pricing kernel
(149) just reflects that. If there is a flow f, that modifies the price P according to (148), and the
pricing kernel M, in such a way that P = P̄ (1 + p) = E [MD] holds. The pricing kernel is in a
sense a symptom rather than a cause in that market.
 102
     In the spirit of maintaining a continuity with the heritage of Lucas (1978), we can also consider a “consumption
                                              0
CAPM” default pricing kernel: Md,C = uu0 (C       1)
                                                (C0 ) . We develop this in Section G.10.2.
 103
     The implicit risk aversion of 1 is just a normalization.
 104
     They start with zero capital at each period, and rebate their profits and losses to the representative household.


                                                         101
Flow-based SDF for the infinite-horizon model Section 5.3 developed the SDF for the
infinite-horizon model process for flows in (26), something also delivered by our general equilibrium
model of Section 5. A justification is that we assume that “dividend strips” are also traded. By the
above procedure we obtain the pricing kernel for each date. In the construction, then dividend strips
have an equity premium ⇡t independent of maturity. So, the maximum Sharpe ratio is achieved via
a one-period dividend strip.
    Formally, one obtains the price of any asset, once we have a SDF. However, one can reasonably
hope to obtain a correct price only when the novel asset is in very small quantity, as the agile
optimizers, which form a very small group, will be able to absorb it. When there are substantially
diﬀerent asset classes, one needs to think about flows in those diﬀerent classes — they will aﬀect
prices, and hence the SDF, along the lines we just saw. We next show how easy it is to generalize
the model to several asset classes.

G.10.2    More general cases to get a pricing kernel
Here we expand Section 5.3 to multiple risky assets and a consumption-based default SDF.

A Gaussian example We start with a basic example. We suppose that returns and consumption
are lognormal:
                                        C1             c 1 2
                                           = e gc + c " 2 c ,                              (150)
                                        C0
with "ct a standard Gaussian random variable. Consider the consumption pricing kernel, which is:
                                            ✓ ◆
                             d,C  M d,C       C1                   c 1 2 2
                          M ⌘e          =                = e rf c " 2 c
                                              C0

for the risk-free rate rf = ln + gc 12 (1 + ) c2 .
    We next consider the agile optimizers’ problem, going back to a general default pricing kernel:
                                                        d
                                            Md = eM ,

which might be Md,Rf or Md,C . We recall that for two jointly Gaussian variables X, Y :
                                ⇥       ⇤
                               E eX Y
                                          = E [Y ] + cov (X, Y ) .                             (151)
                                E [eX ]
For instance, the anomalous excess equity premium is
                                        ⇥     ⇤
                           Md        E Md R
                          E [R] :=              = E [R] + cov M d , R ,                        (152)
                                       E [M ]
                                            d


which is the expected excess return of R that is not explained by the default pricing kernel: indeed,
                                                           d
if the pricing kernel Md correctly priced R, we’d have EM [R] = 0. Put another way, those are the
excess returns above and beyond
                          ⇥        what⇤ is warranted by the default pricing kernel.
                                   0
    The FOC of (146) is E Md e Q R R = 0, so that using (151), with VR = cov (R, R) the variance-
covariance matrix of returns,

                                  E [R] + cov M d , R       VR Q = 0,

                                                102
where cov M d , R is the equity premium warranted by the default pricing kernel. The optimal
                                            d
portfolio of agile optimizers is Q = VR 1 EM [R] and their return is a form of “tangency portfolio”
return:
                                                   d
                                    R⌧ = Q0 R = EM [R]0 VR 1 R,                              (153)
                                                                  d
which depends on the “anomalous” excess returns EM [R]. Their “excess Sharpe ratio” is:
                                                           d
                                                 EM [R⌧ ]
                                          S=                          ,                        (154)
                                                           R⌧

which is the Sharpe ratio they get in excess of the average returns warranted by the default pricing
kernel. Given that EM [R⌧ ] = EM [R]0 VR 1 EM [R] = R2 ⌧ , we have S = R⌧ . Hence, the SDF is
                        d           d             d


their marginal utility (up to a proportional factor that is pinned down by the risk-free rate), which
is:                                                     d
                                                      R⌧       E M [R ⌧ ]   1 2
                                                  S                           S
                                    M=M e   d                    R⌧         2
                                                                                  .            (155)
This SDF M prices all assets correctly: Pa = E [MDa ] for all assets.

G.11     Corporate finance in inelastic markets: Complements
We provide complements to Section 6.2.

G.11.1    An increase in buyback financed by a decrease in dividends: Infinite horizon
Here we complete the discussion of the main text, with the infinite horizon case.
    We provide a simple thought experiment. Suppose that at time 0 there is a permanent change
in the share buyback policy: corporations devote a fraction b of their dividend payout to share
buybacks, the rest to dividends (see Boudoukh et al. (2007c) for an empirical analysis). So, the
aggregate dividend goes from Dt to Dt0 = Dt (1 b), and at each date corporations spend bDt on
share buybacks. To streamline the computations, we use continuous time.

Buybacks in a frictionless rational model We first consider the rational model.

Proposition 15. Consider a firm that at time 0 changes its payout policy, and devotes a fraction b
of the payout to share buybacks, 1 b to dividends (starting from paying only dividends before time
0). Consider a frictionless, rational model. Then, the dividend-price ratio falls by a factor 1 b:
                                            0
                                                = (1           b) .

It goes from = rf + ⇡ g to 0 = (1 b) = rf + ⇡ g 0 , where g 0 = g + G is the new average
growth rate of the dividend per share, which is increased by G = b . At the same time, the market
value of the firm is unchanged, as per Modigliani-Miller.

    The surprise is that it changes the dividend-price ratio by a big amount. The share of dividend
as a fraction of the payout has moved from roughly 100% to 50%, so b = 0.5. Hence, Proposition 15
implies that the price-dividend ratio went from (empirically, about 4%) to half its value (about
2%). This is simply because the growth rate per share has increased by G = 2%, because the
number of shares has decreased by the same G = 2%.

                                                  103
Proof. We had Pt Qt = Dt . As bDt dollars are devoted to purchasing shares each period, the number
of shares follows Q̇t = bD
                         Pt
                           t
                             = bQt , so that the new number of shares is:

                                                Q0t = Q0 e Gt ,          G=b .                                    (156)

Hence, the dividend per share in the new regime is Dt0 = (1 Qb)D
                                                              0
                                                                 t
                                                                   = (1  b)Dt
                                                                     Q0 e Gt
                                                                              i.e. as Dt = Q
                                                                                           Dt
                                                                                             0
                                                                                               ,
                                                                                 t


                                                    Dt0 = (1      b) eGt Dt .                                     (157)
Because the value of the firm is constant, Pt0 Q0t = Pt Q0 , we have
                                                         Pt0 = Pt eGt .                                           (158)
       This implies that the new dividend-price ratio is
                                                       Dt0   Dt
                                                         0
                                                           =    (1        b) .                                    (159)
                                                       Pt    Pt
   This is of course consistent with the Gordon formula: as                       = rf + ⇡    g, as under the new regime
the dividend per share grows at a rate g + G, we have
                                        0
                                            = rf + ⇡    g     G=          b = (1      b) ,
using (156) in the last equation.

Buybacks in an inelastic model We next study the situation in an inelastic model. We need a
stabilizing force, and we assume that the flow has a “reaction to the risk premium” component ⇡
                                                                                              ˆt
as in (162).
Proposition 16. (Impact of share buybacks in the infinite horizon model) In the inelastic model,
suppose that a change in policy on a scale b is announced, and should last forever: a fraction b of
                                                                                         (µD µG )✓b
the aggregate payout is devoted to share buybacks. Then the firm value increases by v⇤ =
in the long run, and the risk premium is lower by ⇡ˆ⇤ =   v⇤ .
       Hence, the economics is similar to the simple model of Proposition 7.
Proof. The proof is similar to that of Proposition 7 in Section F.105 As in the rational case, growth
rate in the number of shares is G with G = b, dt = b + Gt. As each period the aggregate
dividends are lower by b, and they represented a fraction ✓ of the fund’s value, and capital gains
are increased by G, the inflow each period, from the households to the mixed fund, is:
                      d
                         ft = 1      µD ( b ✓)         µG G✓ + ⇡
                                                               ˆ⇤ =              1 + µD      µG ✓G + ⇡
                                                                                                     ˆ⇤
                      dt
We conjecture a long term equilibrium where dp
                                             dt
                                               t
                                                 = G, of the type: pt = Gt + p̃t , where p̃t = o (t).
The demand deviation by the mixed fund is still qt = ⇣pt +  dt + ft , and it should be equal to
the supply deviation, qtS = Gt. This gives,
               d
   0 = lim        qt       qtS =      ⇣G +  G +            1 + µD    µG ✓G + ⇡
                                                                              ˆ + G = µD              µG ✓G + ⇡
                                                                                                              ˆ⇤ .
           t!1 dt

 105
       Our deviation from the baseline are in logs, e.g. pt = ln P t
                                                                 P̄t
                                                                     .


                                                               104
This implies that the long run change in the risk premium is

                                          µD       µG ✓G            µD   µG ✓
                                ⇡
                                ˆ⇤ =                       =                      b.

The corresponding increase in market value if v⇤ =             ⇡
                                                               ˆ⇤
                                                                    .

  In the long run, it is very likely that the µD µG will be more rational, and fall to a value closer
to 0—perhaps because the financier will more actively target a constant equity share (as in Section
G.9), which would create another corrective inflow. Examining this eﬀect empirically would be
interesting.

G.11.2     An increase in buyback financed by increased debt rather than lower contem-
           poraneous dividends.
Consider an increase in buybacks that is not compensated by a contemporaneous decrease in div-
idends — so that the total payout is increased, by a factor equal to b times the initial market
value.
   Two period model. The buyback of B dollars decreases the number of shares by PB0 , the future
aggregate dividend by BR, where R is the gross interest rate. The time-1 dividend is D10 = D1 BR,
the present value of D10 falls by a fraction b. As the number of shares also falls by b, the present
value of the time-1 dividend per share remains constant:

                                             qS =    b,        d = 0.

In a frictionless model, this buyback does not change the current price per share, and does not
change the time-0 return r

                            Frictionless model: p = 0,           v=      b,       r = 0.

In an inelastic model, now q =         ⇣p + f h = q S =     b, so

                                        b + fh
                                   p=          ,      v=p           b,   r = p.
                                           ⇣
Hence, the aggregate values of equities increases, and the time-0 return r is positive, unless it’s
compensated by a flow f h = b. Using the marginal propensities in Section 6.2, we have f h =
  µG ✓p, so that in total:
                                                  b
                                          p=          .                                      (160)
                                              ⇣ + ✓µG
   Infinite horizon. We suppose that the debt will be repaid very far in the future (at date T ! 1.)
Then, the economics is as in the two-period model.106
 106
    In a rational model, we still have pt = 0, vt = b. In an inelastic model, as ⇢ > ,we have dt = 0, qtS =   b, so
         h
pt = b+f
       ⇣   (for all dates t ⌧ T ) also. Hence the expression is as in the two-period model.




                                                      105
G.12         When flows respond to risk premia in the long run
G.12.1        Basic version
The present paper mostly points out how impactful flows are. We provided one microfoundation
for flows in the macro model of Section 5.1, via the “behavioral disturbance” bt , which is a stand-in
for the forces driving flows. Here, we examine variants of that formulation.

A necessary trend and cycle decomposition for flows First, we record that all models of
flows should satisfy the following decomposition to keep the price-dividend ratio stationary. For
clarity, we use the detrending procedure of Section 3.2, but with the baseline of P̄t , D̄t , W̄t =
  P̄0 , D̄0 , W̄0 Gt with Gt = 1. We also use log deviations, e.g., dt = ln D  t
                                                                             D̄t
                                                                                 is the deviation of the
dividend from the initial date 0, and is typically non-stationary, for instance we might have E0 [dt ] =
gt. This allows us to zoom in on the core issue of how households respond to trends in dt . This also
means that F̄t = 0, and that ft is the scaled flow.
Lemma 2. (Trend-cycle decomposition for flows) The price-dividend ratio is stationary if and only
if the cumulative flow ft admits the decomposition
                                                ft = (1       ✓) dt + fˆt ,                                      (161)
where dt the realized long term deviation in dividends (Dt = D0 edt ), which is typically nonstationary,
✓ is the equity-weighted equity share, and fˆt is stationary.
Proof. Recall that q = ft (1 ✓) pt +ˆ   ⇡t . As q = 0, (161) holds, with fˆt = ˆ ⇡t +(1 ✓) (pt dt ).


How does the market equilibrate in the long run? One might ask, how does the market
discover the trend (1 ✓) dt in (161)? It comes out in the model of Section 5.1, via the assumption
of (partial) rational expectations. But what about other models? It turns out that a variety of
plausible models of investor behavior also lead to stationarity. We briefly summarize the situation,
while Section G.12.2 provides proof and complements. Consider a behavioral rule of the type
                                                     ft = ⇡
                                                          ˆ t + "t ,                                             (162)
with > 0: this means that people invest more in equities when they are undervalued, which makes
flows stabilizing. Then, one can show that this leads to a stationary P/D ratio, as in Lemma 2,
and hence the correct representation (161).107
    This rule, in turn, generates the following realistic dynamics. We provide the expression in the
limit of small time intervals, as the expressions are simpler, and in the case dt = 0 to simplify the
analysis.
 107
       Rule (162) can have microfoundations of the “behavioral inattention” type:

                                             ft = mftr + (1     m) ft 1 + f˜t ,                                   (163)

where ftr is the rational flow for an investor embedded in this economy, and ft 1 is the “default behavioral flow”,
corresponding to no action, f˜t is a stationary “behavioral disturbance”, and m 2 [0, 1) (along with the size of f˜t )
smoothly parametrizes the degree of rationality of the model. This captures that agents are “partially rational,” but
are also aﬀected by some disturbance f˜t . Because the rational flow (maximizing Et [V p (Rt+1 )]) is ftr = ft + ⇡ˆ⇡¯t ,
                                                                       ˜
behavior (163) generates (162) with = 1 mm ⇡1¯ > 0 and "t = 1 ftm . Formulation (163) extends more easily than
(162) to other contexts (Gabaix (2014)).


                                                          106
Proposition 17. (Equilibrium when flows respond to the equity premium in a noisy fashion) In
the limit of small time intervals, the specification of flows (162) with i.i.d. shocks "t generates a
deviation of the price from trend equal to:
                                               1
                                  E 0 pt =        E0 ft ,         E0 ft = (1   )t f0 .                       (164)
                                             ⇣ +

The speed of mean-reversion is the positive solution of  2 + (⇣      ) = . The speed of mean-
reversion is increasing in the intensity of the response to the equity premium, , and decreasing
in ⇣ and . It is zero if = 0.

    For instance, consider a flow shock f0 at time 0. Then, the dynamics are those in (24). This
captures that flows are endogenously “digested” by the market at a rate , which is higher when
is higher, i.e. when investors chase risk premia more aggressively (see Bouchaud et al. (2009) for a
survey, more geared towards shorter time scales).
    Illustrative calibration. If we assume = 0.1, we replicate a slow mean-reversion of the P/D
ratio of ' 4% per year.108
    One could imagine agents with other behavioral rules, or agents optimizing on the parameters
  , m, this way providing additional cross-asset predictions.109 We leave that to future research.

G.12.2        When flows react to the risk premia: advanced material
Here we derive Proposition 17, and more generally explore the consequences of flows of the type:

                                                     ft = ⇡
                                                          ˆ t + "t .                                         (166)

We first proceed in continuous time, which is cleanest.

Continuous time For simplicity, we assume away dividend surprises. They would be easy to
add back. The flows (166) are
                                  dft = ⇡
                                        ˆt dt + dzt .                              (167)
We use the operator D,
                                                             Et [dxt ]
                                                   Dxt :=              .                                     (168)
                                                                dt
So, ⇡
    ˆt =        pt + Et [dp
                        dt
                            t]
                               (see Section G.6) becomes:

                                                   ⇡
                                                   ˆt = (D         ) pt                                      (169)

and (167) gives
                                                     Dft = ⇡
                                                           ˆt .                                              (170)
 108
       The parameter is unitless: in continuous time, dft = ⇡
                                                            ˆt dt + dzt .
 109
       Alternatively, consider a rule like:
                                             ft = ⇡ˆt + (dt pt ) + f˜t ,                                      (165)
where and are weakly positive, one of them is strictly positive, and f˜t is an AR(1). The coeﬃcients and are
“stabilizing” forces: they make investors buy when expected returns are high. Then, the rule (165) also leads to the
correct form shown in Lemma 2. However, a rule like ft = ⇡  ˆt + (dt pt ) + f˜t would not lead to a stationary P/D
ratio: while the right-hand side would be stationary, by Lemma 2 the left-hand side should not be stationary.


                                                            107
The basic dynamic pricing equation, (66), becomes:
                                        0=    ⇣pt + Dpt + ft .                                                (171)
Diﬀerentiating once and taking time-t expectations gives:
                                 0 =   ⇣Dpt + D2 pt + Dft                                                     (172)
                                     ⇥                      ⇤
                                   =    ⇣D + D2 + (D      ) pt                                                (173)
                                   = H (D) pt
where
                                    H (x) = x2          (⇣           )x        .                              (174)
   The fundamental solutions of equation H (D) pt = 0 are of the form pt = Be , with H (x) = 0.     xt

   There are two roots to H (x) = 0, of opposite sign: we call them ⇢ and     , with ⇢ and weakly
positive:                  p                         p
                   ⇣     +                 ⇣+ +
              ⇢=               ,       =                ,        = (⇣     )2 + 4  .        (175)
                        2                      2
When = 0, ⇢ = ⇣ (as in Proposition 5) and = 0. We record that solves:
                                        (⇣ +  )         =        ( + )                                        (176)
and as the product of the two roots,      ⇢ is equal to           
                                                                        in (174),

                                                     =        .                                                (177)
                                                         ⇢
    This allows us to derive a variety of impulse responses. Calling yt the process dyt =                yt dt+ dzt ,
let us look for a solution of the form (or “Ansatz”):
                                        pt = Ayt ,            ft = ayt .
Plugging this Ansatz in (167) and examining the zt term gives:
                                                 a = 1.
Next, we have Dyt =           yt , so plugging this in (171) and matching coeﬃcients gives: 0 =
[ (⇣ +  ) A + a] yt , i.e.
                                                 1
                                             A=      .
                                               ⇣ +
This derived Proposition 17 in continuous time.⇤
    One can derive other things. For instance, here is an expression for the price, expressed in
discrete time for convenience.
Proposition 18. (Equilibrium price in infinite horizon model, with enriched model of house-
holds)Suppose that ft = ⇡ˆt + f˜t for some arbitrary f˜t . Then, the price at time t is:

                                      1
                                                                                                !
                            ft 1     X         ⇢                      f˜⌧     f˜t 1
                        pt = ¯ + E t                                        ¯       + M D de⌧                  (178)
                             ⇣       ⌧ =t
                                          (1 + ⇢)⌧ t+1                      ⇣
with ⇣¯ = ⇣ +  and M D = ⇣¯ .
    This generalizes Proposition 5. The economics is largely the same, except that ⇣ is replaced by
⇣, the expression of ⇢ changes to (175), and the price impact of an inflow f˜t decays at a rate .
¯

                                                     108
Discrete time We use the operator

                                       rxt = Et [xt+1         xt ]

so that rxt ' Dxt ⇥ t, where D is the continuous time operator (168). So ⇡
                                                                         ˆt =           pt + Et [ pt+1 ]
becomes:
                                       ⇡
                                       ˆt = (r     ) pt .
Likewise,        ˆt + "t (see (166)) implies:
            ft = ⇡

                       rft = ⇡
                             ˆt+1 =     (r        ) pt+1 =    (r        ) (1 + r!) pt

with ! = t = 1 in discrete time, and a formal sense that we clarify below, ! = 0 in the continuous
time limit.
   Then, the basic equation (66) becomes:

                                      0=     (⇣     r) pt + ft .

Pre-multiplying by r gives:

                          0 =   r (⇣ r) pt + rft
                            =   r (⇣ r) pt + (r                     ) (1 + r!) pt
                            = H̃ (r) pt

with
                          H̃ (x) = ( + !) x2       (⇣       (1       !)) x      .                (179)
Polynomial H̃ (x) is the discrete-time analogue to the continuous time polynomial H (x) seen above.
   Then, we call ⇢ and       the roots of polynomial H̃.
   Now, defining yt = (1      ) yt 1 + "t , we seek solutions of the type:

                                      pt = Ayt ,         ft = ayt .                               (180)

This implies
                                 ⇡
                                 ˆt = (r        ) pt =    ( + ) Ayt .
Plugging this in (166) gives:
                                      a=        ! ( + ) A + 1.
Plugging the Ansatz (180) in (66) gives:

                                      0=        (⇣ +  ) A + a.

Hence, we obtain: A = ⇣+
                        a
                          , with
                                                    1
                                           a=           +
                                                          .                                       (181)
                                                1 + ! ⇣+
Again, formally, we obtain the continuous time limit when ! ! 0.




                                                   109
   From discrete to continuous time We draw from Section H.1, and denote with bolded
symbols the continuous-time version of the parameters, and t the calendar value of a time interval.
As they are unitless, and ⇣ are the same in discrete and continuous time.
   We have ! = t, and we can write Et [pt+1 ] = (1 + !r) pt . Hence, calling x = x t,

                            H̃ (x) = ( + !) x2 (⇣                     (1   !)) x     !
                       H̃ (x) / t = ( +    t) x2 (⇣                     (1     t)) x

so that indeed, lim t!0 H̃(x)
                           t
                              = H (x).

Impact of a trend on dividends We prove the following.

Proposition 19. Suppose that dt = gt. Then, if flows follow

                                           ft = ⇡
                                                ˆt + (1           ✓) g + c

with f 1 = 0,with > 0 and some constant c. Then in the long run, the equity premium is higher,
ˆ⇤ = c . We have pt = dt + p⇤ , ft = (1 ✓) dt + f⇤ , with p⇤ = c , i.e.
⇡
                                                         c        c
                                                 p⇤ =        =                                            (182)
                                                                  ⇢
and f = ⇣p⇤ . For finite t, we have
                                                 ✓                                 ◆
                                                          ⇣                    t
                                   pt = d t + 1              (1            )           p⇤                 (183)
                                                        ⇣ +
so that on impact
                                                            c
                                                 p0 =                                                     (184)
                                                        (⇣ +  ) ⇢
where ⇢,     are the of the characteristic polynomial H (x) in (174). The flows are

                                    ft = (1      ✓) dt + f⇤ 1         (1           )t .                   (185)

    We write the rule as a deviation c from the rational flow, which is ft = (1 ✓) g by Lemma
2. In the baseline case ft = ⇡  ˆt + "t , then c = (1 ✓) g < 0. Intuitively, if there is a low , the
“flows don’t adjust enough”, so that the price is too low, and the equity premium is higher. This is
why the intercept p⇤ is negative.
    Also, the long run impact is larger than the short run impact, because the mistakes c “pile up”
over time. The speed of convergence is , which is about 9%. So, for most purposes, the impact p0
is more important than the long run impact.110
Proof. First, we derive the long run, which is simpler. Calling ⇡
                                                                ˆ⇤ the steady state deviation of the
equity premium from ⇡ ¯ , we have on average ft = ⇡   ˆ⇤ + (1 ✓) g + c. But Lemma 2 showed that
we need ft = (1 ✓) g. So, this implies ⇡   ˆ⇤ = c . This in turn corresponds to pt = p⇤ + gt, with
p⇤ = ⇡ˆ⇤ .
 110
    Note that it could be obtained in the case       ! 0 from Proposition 5, which gives p0 = ⇣⇢
                                                                                               c
                                                                                                 (by plugging in
f⌧ = c⌧ ).


                                                        110
    Next, we derive the finite-time behavior. For simplicity, we use continuous time, and set g = 0
for simplicity (the general case is similar). We have Dft = ⇡ ˆt + c. Insert this in (173) gives

                                                H (D) pt + c = 0.                                                    (186)

The solution is pt = p⇤ + Ae t + Be⇢t for constants A and B. The large t behavior implies B = 0.
As time t = 0, we must have f0 = 0, so
                                                Edpt
                              0=     ⇣p0 +              =         ⇣p⇤    (⇣ +  ) A.
                                                 dt |t=0

This gives A =      ⇣
                  ⇣+
                         p⇤ . This implies
                                                ✓                  ◆
                                                          ⇣                             c
                             p0 = p⇤ + A =          1                  p⇤ =                  .
                                                        ⇣ +                  ⇣ +

We use that = ⇢ from (177), which gives (184).
  Finally, as 0 = ⇣pt + Dpt + ft , we have
                                                               t                     t
                               ft = ⇣p⇤ + (⇣ +  ) Ae              = ⇣p⇤ 1      e        .

   Using our calibration g = 2%, ✓ = 87.5% and rule (162) with = 0.1 we find: ⇡ˆ⇤ = 1 ✓ g = 2.5%.
   We next prove a result that synthesizes and expands on our previous results.

Proposition 20. Suppose an economy with i.i.d. dividend growth                               dt = g + "dt , and consumer
flows following the semi-behavioral rule:

                                    ft = ⇡
                                         ˆt + (1          ✓ + ) dt + c + "ft                                         (187)

where disturbances
         ⇣ ⌘       "dt , "ft have mean 0 and no time correlations. The rational case obtains when ,
 , c, var "ft are set to 0. Then, in the steady state, the equity premium is ⇡¯+⇡ ˆ with ⇡
                                                                                         ˆ=     g+c
                                                                                                    ,
and using p⇤ =    ⇡
                  ˆ
                      , f⇤ = ⇣p⇤ , and      the mean-reversion of Proposition 17,

                                                        fˆt
    ft = (1   ✓) dt + fˆt + f⇤ ,         pt = d t +         + p⇤          fˆt = (1           ) fˆt 1 + "ft + "dt .   (188)
                                                      ⇣ +

    Here in (187), is a “gap”, as the rational case would entail = 0. So, the “gap” creates a
permanent change in the equity premium (as in Proposition 19). The new part is really the impact
of disturbances "dt , "ft : their impact means-reverts at the rate . Excess flows "ft make the price
temporarily too high, and high dividends not immediately compensated by a flow ( "dt ) make the
price temporarily too low, as in the myopia eﬀect of Proposition 5.
Proof. The terms corresponding to the non-zero trend g and c are exactly as in Proposition 19,
using c0 = g + c. So, by linearity, we can set g = c = 0 and focus on the stochastic terms. In
the case where "dt = 0, which is exactly Proposition 17. Then, the case "dt is very similar, as the
“mistake” in flows is the sum of the shock "ft and the “excess adjustment” "dt .



                                                         111
H         Calibration of the general equilibrium model of Section 5:
          Details
Here we provide a detailed justification of the calibration in Section 5.4.

H.1        From discrete to continuous time
Denote with bolded symbols the continuous-time version of the parameters, and t the calendar
value of a time interval. Then, as , , ⇢, ⇡
                                          ˆ have units of [Time] 1 , their discrete time counterparts
are:
                           =    t,      =    t,    ⇢ = ⇢ t,       ⇡ˆ=⇡  ˆ t,                    (189)
but as  has unit of [Time] (indeed, ⇡
                                      ˆ must be unitless in an expression like PWQ = ✓e⇡ˆ , see (1))
its discrete time counterpart is:
                                          =  ( t) 1 .                                        (190)
As it is unitless, ⇣ is the same in discrete and continuous time,

                                                       ⇣ = ⇣.
                                         1/2
Finally      f has the units of [Time]         so

                                                    f =   f (   t)1/2

and similarly for      d.



H.2        Calibration steps
The calibration steps are the following.111 We express things in annualized values, but we use the
correspondence in Section H.1 to go between discrete vs continuous time notions.
   1. For Tables 5 and 6, first we set = 2, g = 2%, y = 0.8%, D = 5%, rf = 1%, f = 2.8%. Next
      we impute from rf given , g, y2 . Then we calculate ( r2 , ⇡    ¯ , ) and set f = 4%, ⇣ M =
      0.2,  = 1, ✓ = 0.875, which jointly imply ⇣ = ⇣ M  f = 0.16. Last we calculate ⇢, bpf , b⇡f , b .
                                                           p f
   2. In Table 6, we use r̂t := rt                    t + bf "t : so, the share of the variance of excess stock
                                        Et 1 [rt ] = "D
                                         cov(r̂,bpf "ft )
         returns that is due to flows is   var(r̂)
                                                          . Likewise, the share of the variance of stock returns
                                       D
                               cov(r̂," )
         due to fundamentals is var(r̂)t . The two shares add up to 1.

   3. For Table 7a, the model implied mean of P/D is
                           pt                                                                         !
                      P     e    1 h   ⇣       ⌘i 1                       1 p 2            2
                                                                                           f
                    E   =E      = E exp bpf f˜t = exp                       b                               ,   (191)
                      D                                                   2 f 1       (1       f)
                                                                                                    2


         the log mean of P/D is
                                                                     1
                                                    exp (E log P/D) = ,                                         (192)
 111
       We thank Lingxuan Wu for performing those computations.


                                                          112
  and the variance of log D/P is
                                                                               2
                                                                         bpf       2
                                                                                   f
                             Var (log D/P ) = Var (pt ) =                               2.            (193)
                                                                     1   (1        f)

  Up to now, everything is in units of continuous time.

4. For Table 7b, we simulate the model with t = 12
                                                 1
                                                    over 72 years with N = 1000 simulations.
   We report the mean and 95% confidence interval for the slopes, the mean 8-lag Newey-West
   standard errors and the mean R2 across the N = 1000 simulations as the model-generated
   results.

   (a) We generate T = 72t periods (72 years) of i.i.d. innovations "D
                                                                     t ⇠ N (0,
                                                                                             2
                                                                                             D ·   t) , "ft ⇠
                                                                ˜
       N 0, f · t with t = 12 and calculate the path of dt , ft from
             2                 1


                                                                        1 2
                                   dt      dt 1 = g ·       t + "D
                                                                 t             ·       t,             (194)
                                                                        2 D
                                   f˜t     f˜t 1 =      f    t · f˜t 1 + "ft ,                        (195)

       for a total of N = 1000 times.
   (b) We calculate the time series for the log dividend, the deviation of prices from their
       rational average, the log price, the log dividend price ratio, and the equity premium as
       follows:

                                            log Dt = dt ,                                             (196)
                                                pt = bpf f˜t ,                                        (197)
                                             log Pt = log Dt + pt log ,                               (198)
                                         log Dt /Pt = log Dt log Pt ,                                 (199)
                                                      ¯ + b⇡ f˜t .
                                                 ⇡t = ⇡          f                                    (200)

   (c) For the predictive return regressions, we collapse the data to a yearly frequency by
       taking the price and the dividend paid in the last month of the year. Then we calculate
       the 1-year, 4-year and 8-year cumulative returns, and run 1-year, 4-year and 8-year
       predictive regressions on the collapsed yearly data. (For the 4-year and 8-year horizons,
       the regressions have overlapping windows when calculating returns.) We report the 8-lag
       Newey-West standard errors for all three regressions.
         i. In both the data and the simulations, returns are calculated assuming that the
            investor pockets the monthly dividends without reinvesting them at the risk-free
            rate. For example, the return at the 1-year horizonR 1 is the month-12 post-dividend
            P12 plus an average of D1 to D12 (approximating 0 D⌧ d⌧ in continuous time) divided
            by the month-0 post-dividend price P0 .
        ii. We generate the cumulative return for the 4-year and 8-year horizons by compound-
            ing 1-year return (rt,t+4 = (1 + rt,t+1 ) (1 + rt+1,t+2 ) (1 + rt+2,t+3 ) (1 + rt+3,t+4 ) 1)
            for the predictive regressions.


                                                 113
                        Table I.15: Parameters and elasticities in numerical models

            Variable                                      Lucas I   Lucas II LRR I IRR II
            Risk aversion ( )                             4         4        10    10
            IES ( '1 )                                    1/4       1/4      1.5   1.5
            Time preference ( )                           0.9       0.9      0.94  0.94
            Mean output growth (g)                        0.04      0.04     0.018 0.018
            Std. dev. of output growth ( y )              0.1       0.1      0.046 0.046
            Mean financialization ratio ( = D  Y
                                                 )        0.2       0.2      0.082 0.082
            Persistence of financialization ratio (⇢x )   1.0       0.95     -     -
            Std. dev. of financialization shocks ( x )    0.0       0.05     -     -
            Growth rate persistence (⇢)                   -         -        0.044 0.044
            Growth risk loading ('e )                     -         -        0.044 0.044
            Stochastic volatility ( w )                   -         -        0.0   0.8 ⇥ 10 5
            Persistence of volatility (⌫1 )               -         -        0.854 0.854
            Macro elasticity (⇣)                          20.0      17.5     28.85 28.96
       Notes. All parameters in the table are annualized. The parameters are calibrated so that in each
       model the risk premium is around 4% and the equity market’s capitalization is 1.25 times GDP.
       These parameters are defined throughout our discussion. In Lucas I, we reproduce the analytical
       results of Section F.4 using the numerical methods to confirm their consistency. In Lucas II,
       we compute the macro elasticity in an economy where labor income is partially correlated with
       financial market returns. LRR I follows the notation and parameterization of Case I in Bansal
       and Yaron (2004) with long run risks and constant volatility. We adjust the discount rate and
       output volatility in order to hit the calibration targets. LRR II follows the parameterization in
       their Case II with stochastic volatility.

I       Computing elasticities numerically in equilibrium models
I.1       Summary of the main results
This section computes numerically the macro elasticity in classic asset pricing models.112 This
complements the closed forms that we obtained in Section F.4. We consider two important classes
of models with diﬀerent parameterizations: the Lucas (1978) model with labor income, and long
run risk models as in Bansal and Yaron (2004).
    Table I.15 summarizes the parameterization and the moments generated by the numerical exer-
cises. These parameters are defined throughout our discussion. We find that the macro elasticity
is around 17.5 in a Lucas model with partially correlated labor income, and close to 30 in long
run risk models. Section I.2 describes the general procedure that we follow to compute the macro
elasticities numerically, and Sections I.3 to I.4 outline the models and the numerical algorithms in
detail.

 112
       We thank Zhiyu Fu for performing those computations.




                                                       114
I.2     General procedure
                                                                  2
For both models considered, we suppose ln Yt = g             Y
                                                             2
                                                               + "Y t and define ⌦t = Yt Dt to be
residual “labor income” (broadly understood). Suppose that stocks are tradable (with dividends
Dt ), but not labor income. The consumer receives a stream of labor income ⌦t every period. At
time 0, he is endowed with all the shares in the “stock market.”
    Call t = DYtt = 1 ⌦Ytt the relative size of dividends versus aggregate consumption, to which we
refer as the degree of “financialization” of the economy. In Bansal and Yaron (2004), we assume
that t is a constant at all dates. In the Lucas model, we allow t to be time-varying so that labor
income is only partially correlated with the stock market.

I.2.1   General procedure
Define Zt to be a vector of aggregate state variables and Z̄ the unconditional mean of Zt . In a Lucas
                                                                                                         0
model with partially-correlated labor income, Zt = t , and in a long run risk model Zt = (xt , t2 ) .
                                                                     P ⇤
We compute the equilibrium price-dividend ratio and risk-free rate, Dtt = pd⇤ (Zt ) and rtf ⇤ = rf ⇤ (Zt ).
We define the perturbed price-dividend ratio as:

                                        pd (Zt , p) = pd⇤ (Zt ) (1 + p)

for a small constant p close to 0.
    Given pd (Zt , p) , rf ⇤ (Zt ) , we compute the value function, V (Zt , wt ; p), the optimal portfolio
rule ✓(Zt , wt ; p), and the optimal consumption plan c(Zt , wt ; p) for households with diﬀerent wt ,
where wt = WtE /Yt is their financial wealth relative to GDP, which equals aggregate consumption.
The representative household holds w̄(Zt ) = (Zt )(pd⇤ (Zt ) + 1) in financial wealth relative to GDP.
We calibrate the parameters so that on average the consumption/market capitalization is equal to
 Y
WtE
     = w̄(1Z̄) = 0.8. Define ✓⇤ (Zt , p) ⌘ ✓(Zt , w̄(Zt ), p) and c⇤ (Zt , p) = c(Zt , w̄(Zt ), p) as the policy
functions for the representative household given the perturbation p. We have ✓⇤ (Z, 0) = 1 and
c⇤ (Z, 0) = 1 for any Z.
    The macro elasticity is then give as:

                                            dQE /QE         d✓⇤ (Z̄, p)
                                    ⇣r =            =
                                             dP/P               dp      p=0

The numerical solution procedure is as follows:

   1. We solve for the equilibrium objects pd⇤ (Zt ) and rf ⇤ (Zt ) on the grid of aggregate state vari-
      ables Zt using standard methods, as discussed below.

   2. Taking the unperturbed pd⇤ (Zt ), rf ⇤ (Zt ) as given, we solve for the optimal policy functions
      via the following dynamic programming problem:
                                                          "✓      ◆1                  #
                                                             Yt+1
                      Vt (Zt , wt ) = max u (c, Zt ) + Et             V (Zt+1 , wt+1 ) ,
                                      (✓,c)                   Yt




                                                      115
         where113 :
                                              Yt
                                          wt+1 =  (wt + 1                     t    ct ) Rt+1 ,
                                             Yt+1
         with Rt+1 the gross return on financial assets:
                                             Dt+1 pd (Zt+1 ) + 1                      ⇣               ⌘
                                 Rt+1 = ✓t                       + (1             ✓t ) 1 + rtf ⇤ (Zt ) .
                                              Dt     pd (Zt )
         For the long run risk model, the wealth evolution is the same, but the Bellman equation uses
         Epstein-Zin preferences, so it is nonlinear. We exploit the homotheticity of the long run risk
         model to speed up the computation, as explained below.
   3. We check the consistency of the policy functions with the aggregate equilibrium, ✓⇤ (Z, 0) = 1
      and c⇤ (Z, 0) = 1.
   4. We solve another dynamic programming with the perturbed price-dividend ratio, taking p =
      0.01. We then compute:
                                    r    ✓⇤ (Z̄, 0.01) ✓⇤ (Z̄, 0)
                                   ⇣ =                            .
                                                    0.01

I.3       Lucas models with partially correlated labor income
We allow for shocks to the financialization ratio in the Lucas model. We consider the parameter-
ization t = µxx+x
               t
                  t
                    , where ln xt = ⇢x ln xt 1 + x ✏x,t , µx > 0. In the simple Lucas model studied in
the main body of the paper, we have 0 = < 1, but x = 0.

I.3.1      Stationary equilibrium
We first solve for the steady state price-dividend ratio. The asset pricing equation is, with Mt+1
being the SDF:
                                                                      
                                                                    Mt+1
                                                                 Et       Rt+1 = 1,
                                                                     Mt
                                       " ✓      ◆                              #
                                           Yt+1             Dt+1 pd( t+1 ) + 1
                                    Et                                           = 1,
                                            Yt               Dt     pd( t )
                                       " ✓      ◆1                             #
                                           Yt+1              t+1 pd( t+1 ) + 1
                                    Et                                           = 1.                              (201)
                                            Yt                t     pd( t )
For ease of computation, we decompose the shock to x into "Y,t and another component independent
from it:
                          ln xt = ⇢X ln xt 1 + x ✏xt + x,Y "Y,t ✏x,t ?? "Y,t .             (202)
    The stationary equilibrium is defined as the function pd( ) that solves equation (201) subject
to the law of motion of the underlying state variable x in (202).
 113
       Indeed, the law of motion for financial wealth is Wt+1
                                                          E
                                                              = WtE + ⌦t            Ct Rt+1 , which gives
                                 E           ✓                   ◆
                               Wt+1    Yt        WtE + ⌦t   Ct                 Yt
                      wt+1 =        =                                Rt+1 =        (wt + 1       t   ct ) Rt+1 .
                               Yt+1   Yt+1            Yt                      Yt+1



                                                             116
Discretization The function pd( ) is computed on a discrete grid over . The upper and lower
boundaries of the grid are chosen to cover at least 99.9% of the stationary distribution of . Oﬀ-
grid values are computed using linear interpolation or extrapolation. Expectations are computed
using Gauss–Hermite quadrature with 10 nodes. Increasing the number of nodes does not change
the results in a noticeable way. After discretization, the solution to (201) is essentially a vector
corresponding to the P/D ratio on the grid for . This equation is then solved non-linearly using
Newton’s method.
    The risk-free rate is the same as in the simple Lucas model, as the state variable does not
enter the SDF. The expected risky return can be computed as:
                                           
                                             Yt+1 t+1 pd( t+1 ) + 1
                                ERt+1 = Et                          .
                                              Yt   t     pd( t )

I.3.2   Dynamic programming: Outline of the algorithm
The dynamic programming problem is solved using policy function iteration and the endogenous
grid point method. For notational ease, for each variable x we denote its value in the next period
as x0 .
    The dynamic programming problem can be solved in two steps. First, given post-consumption
wealth w̃ = w + 1       c, the households solve a portfolio choice problem that maximizes:
                                    "✓ ◆         ✓                  ◆#
                                            1
                                       Y0            0  Y
                              maxE             V       , 0 w̃R⇤ (✓)
                                ✓      Y                Y
                                 s.t.
                                 R⇤ = ✓R + (1           ✓) (1 + rf ) .

The maximization problem yields the first-order condition:
                          0          ✓                ◆
                            Y             0 Y     ⇤ ⇤
                        E ( ) Vw           , 0 w̃R (✓ ) (R                rf ) = 0.
                            Y               Y

    With knowledge of Vw (either from an initial guess or from the previous iteration), we can
solve for ✓⇤ non-linearly given each w̃. This way, we obtain the functions ✓⇤ (w̃) and R⇤ (w̃), which
map post-consumption wealth w̃ into the optimal portfolio choice ✓˜ and into the asset returns R⇤ ,
independently of the consumption policy.
    Second, the household choose optimal consumption by maximizing:
                                          "✓ ◆         ✓                  ◆#
                                                 1
                                             Y0              Y
                           maxu(c) + E              V     0
                                                            , 0 w̃R⇤ (w̃)                       (203)
                             c               Y               Y
                             s.t.
                               w̃ = w + 1          c,                                          (204)

which gives the first-order condition:
                                    "✓        ◆        ✓                    ◆       #
                                         Y0                  0  Y
                         c    = E                 Vw           , 0 w̃R⇤ (w̃) R⇤ (w̃) .
                                         Y                      Y

                                                       117
   Following the endogenous grid point method, we can solve for c explicitly as a function of the
post-consumption wealth w̃ on the grid, that is,
                                (        "✓           ◆        ✓                           ◆        #) 1
                                                  0
                                              Y                             Y
                    c⇤ (w̃) =        E                    Vw        0
                                                                        ,     0
                                                                                w̃R⇤ (w̃) R⇤ (w̃)          .
                                              Y                             Y

then we can back out pre-consumption wealth w (oﬀ grid) as a function of w̃ from the budget
constraint (204). Finally, using interpolation, we can get the desired policy function c⇤ (w) on the
grid.
    By the envelope theorem, we have:

                                            Vw = u0 (c⇤ (w)) = (c⇤ )                   .

   Using the solved policy function c⇤ (w) we obtain Vw from the envelope theorem and proceed to
the next iteration until we achieve the desired accuracy.

Verification Now, we verify that the policy functions are consistent with the aggregate equilib-
rium. For representative households, that is, households with financial wealth wE = (pd( ) + 1) ,
their consumption is exactly equal to GDP, c = 1, and their risky share is also equal to one, ✓ = 1.

Initial guess We make the initial guess by assuming the aggregate state is constant. In this
case, the solutions for each value of are independent of one another. We guess and verify that
                                               1
the value function is of the form V (w) = A 1 w , where w includes capitalized labor income.

I.4      Long run risk model
I.4.1    Stationary equilibrium
As shown in Bansal and Yaron (2004), the SDF for a recursive utility function is:
                                                              ✓             ◆ '#
                                                          #       Yt+1
                                         Mt+1 =                                    Rw✓ 1 ,
                                                                   Yt

where:
                                                 pd(x0 , 0 ) + 1 Yt+1
                                            Rw =                      ,
                                                   pd(x, )        Yt
                                                 1
                                              #=        .
                                                 1 '1

Following Bansal and Yaron (2004), the dynamics of the economy are:

                                xt+1 = ⇢xt + 'e t et+1 ,
                                gt+1 = µ + xt + t ⌘t+1 ,
                                    2         2
                                    t+1 =     + v1 t2         2
                                                                + w wt+1 ,
                                      et+1 , ut+1 , ⌘t+1 , wt+1 ⇠ N.i.i.d.(0, 1).

                                                               118
The price-dividend ratio can be solved using:
                                             "                          ✓          ◆ '#              #
                                                                            Yt+1
                                                           E        #                        #
                                                                                            Rt+1 = 1,
                                                                             Yt
                                   "                                ✓                        ◆# #
                                                                        pd(xt+1 ) + 1
                               E           #
                                               exp ((1      )g)                                          = 1.
                                                                           pd(xt )

Moving the current pd outside of the expectation operator:
                                              ⇥                                                             ⇤1
                          pd(x,        2
                                           ) = E ✓ exp ((1                  )g) (pd(x0 ,         2
                                                                                                     ) + 1)# # ,

which gives a fixed point problem. We solve for pd(x,                              2
                                                                                       ) by iterating upon this equation.

I.4.2   A shortcut for the dynamic programming problem
Labor income can also be modeled as the the dividend from human capital, W L . In our setup of
long run risk models, labor income is co-integrated with aggregate output, so human capital W L
and W E have the same return process. Therefore, we could first solve the bellman equation with
total wealth W = W L + W E as the state variable, and then take care of the diﬀerence between W L
and W E when calculating the elasticity.
   The Bellman equation with Epstein-Zin preferences is:
                                                                                                                  ! 11
                                                                1   1           ⇥             0   0
                                                                                                     ⇤ 11 '1       1   '
                    V (x, w) = max (1                      )c       '   + E V           1
                                                                                            (x , w )
                                           c,#

                          s.t.
                           w0 = (w c)R⇤ (x, x0 ),
                          R⇤ = #R(x, x0 ) + (1 #)Rf (x),
                           x0 = lom(x),

where here we use x as a shorthand for both state variables, and w total wealth normalized by
GDP, with a slight abuse of notation.
   Exploiting the homotheticity in the Bellman equation, we can eliminate w and therefore reduce
the dimensionality of the state space by one. We define v(x) as V (x, w) = v(x)w. The Bellman
equation is then given by:
                                                                                                          1   1
                           1                                    1                                             '
                    1   w1 '                               c1 '   E [v(x0 )1 w01 ] 1
            v(x)1   '        = max(1                     )      +
                        1 '1    c,✓                        1 '1            1 '1
                                                                1                            1
                                                           c1 '   (w c)1 ' ⇥ 0 1    ⇤1
                                                                                       ⇤ 11 '1
                               = max(1                   )      +         E v(x ) R            .
                                       c,✓                 1 '1     1 '1

The maximization problem is solved in two steps. First, we take the first order condition with
respect to ✓:           ⇥                                      ⇤
                       E v(x0 )1 (✓⇤ R + (1 ✓⇤ )Rf ) (R Rf ) = 0,

                                                                    119
                                                                                  1   1
                                                                                      '
which gives ✓ , independent of w. Defining A(x) = E [v(x ) R
                ⇤                                               0 1
                                                                ]   , then optimal consumption
                                                                         ⇤1       1

solves:                            1                  1                 1
                                 1 '
                             1 w
                           1 '                     c1 '        (w c)1 '
                      v(x)           = max(1     )      + A(x)            .
                               1 '1     c          1 '1           1 '1
The first-order condition is given by:
                                                1                             1
                                (1       ) (c⇤ ) ' = A(x)(w            c⇤ ) ' ,

which yields:
                                     c⇤ (w)              1
                                            =                       = &(x).
                                       w      (1        )' A' + 1
Again, the consumption-wealth ratio is only a function of x but not w. Plugging it into the Bellman
equation:
                                1                   1                                     1
                         v(x)1 ' = (1    )& 1 ' (x) + A(x)(1                  &(x))1 ' ,
                            v(x) ⌘ F(v)(x).

Since it is derived from a Bellman equation, the operator F is also a contraction mapping. Therefore,
we can solve it by iteration.

I.4.3   Calculating the elasticity with labor income
Now we proceed to calculate the macro elasticity, recognizing that only a fraction            of total wealth
is capitalized.
    Recall the definition of macro elasticity:

                                                        dQE /QE
                                            ⇣r =                ,
                                                         dP/P
             E
where    = QQ . Therefore, the elasticity can be calculated as:

                                                    d✓ Q    d✓ 1
                                         ⇣r =             =      .
                                                    dp QE   dp

The share is calibrated to match WY " =     Y
                                            W
                                                =         1
                                                        (pd+1)
                                                               = 0.8, and dp
                                                                          d✓
                                                                             can be computed by perturbing
pd as outlined above.

I.4.4   Calibration
The calibration closely follows Bansal and Yaron (2004), with two exceptions. In the original paper,
Bansal and Yaron (2004) obtain a high risk premium from leveraged dividends. In our model, as
we do not have an explicit dividend process, we calibrate ¯ to match a 4% risk premium on the
aggregate market. We also reduce so that we have a reasonable risk-free rate and P/D ratio in
the stationary equilibrium.



                                                        120
References for Online Appendix
Bansal, Ravi and Amir Yaron, “Risks for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset Pricing
 Puzzles,” Journal of Finance, 2004, 59 (4), 1481–1509.

Barro, Robert J, “Rare disasters and asset markets in the twentieth century,” The Quarterly
 Journal of Economics, 2006, 121 (3), 823–866.

Benzaquen, Michael, Iacopo Mastromatteo, Zoltan Eisler, and Jean-Philippe
 Bouchaud, “Dissecting cross-impact on stock markets: An empirical analysis,” Journal of Sta-
 tistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment, 2017, 2017 (2), 023406.

Betermier, Sebastien, Laurent E Calvet, and Evan Jo, “A supply and demand approach to
 equity pricing,” 2019.

Bordalo, Pedro, Nicola Gennaioli, Rafael La Porta, and Andrei Shleifer, “Expectations
 of Fundamentals and Stock Market Puzzles,” Technical Report, National Bureau of Economic
 Research 2020.

Bouchaud, Jean-Philippe, J Doyne Farmer, and Fabrizio Lillo, “How markets slowly digest
 changes in supply and demand,” in “Handbook of financial markets: dynamics and evolution,”
 Elsevier, 2009, pp. 57–160.

Bouchaud, Jean-Philippe, Julius Bonart, Jonathan Donier, and Martin Gould, Trades,
 quotes and prices: financial markets under the microscope, Cambridge University Press, 2018.

Boudoukh, Jacob, Roni Michaely, Matthew Richardson, and Michael R Roberts, “On
 the importance of measuring payout yield: Implications for empirical asset pricing,” The Journal
 of Finance, 2007, 62 (2), 877–915.

Campbell, John Y. and John H. Cochrane, “By Force of Habit: A Consumption-Based
 Explanation of Aggregate Stock Market Behavior,” Journal of Political Economy, 1999, 107 (2),
 205–251.

Chang, Yen-Cheng, Harrison Hong, and Inessa Liskovich, “Regression Discontinuity and
 the Price Eﬀects of Stock Market Indexing,” Review of Financial Studies, 2014, 28 (1), 212–246.

Chinco, Alex, Samuel Hartzmark, and Abigail Sussman, “Necessary Evidence For A Risk
 Factor’s Relevance,” 2020. Working Paper.

Davis, Steven J. and John Haltiwanger, “Gross Job Creation, Gross Job Destruction, and
 Employment Reallocation,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 1992, 107 (3), 819–863.

Duﬃe, Darrell, “Presidential Address: Asset Price Dynamics with Slow-Moving Capital,” Journal
 of Finance, 2010, 65 (4), 1237–1267.

Evans, Martin DD and Richard K Lyons, “Order flow and exchange rate dynamics,” Journal
 of political economy, 2002, 110 (1), 170–180.

Frazzini, Andrea, Ronen Israel, and Tobias J Moskowitz, “Trading costs,” Working Paper,
 2018.

                                              121
Gabaix, Xavier, “Variable rare disasters: An exactly solved framework for ten puzzles in macro-
 finance,” The Quarterly journal of economics, 2012, 127 (2), 645–700.

Gabaix, Xavier, “A sparsity-based model of bounded rationality,” The Quarterly Journal of Eco-
 nomics, 2014, 129 (4), 1661–1710.

Gabaix, Xavier, “Behavioral Inattention,” Handbook of Behavioral Economics, 2019, 2, 261–344.

Gabaix, Xavier and Ralph SJ Koijen, “Granular instrumental variables,” Working Paper 28204,
 National Bureau of Economic Research December 2020.

Gabaix, Xavier, Parameswaran Gopikrishnan, Vasiliki Plerou, and H Eugene Stanley,
 “A theory of power-law distributions in financial market fluctuations,” Nature, 2003, 423 (6937),
 267–270.

Gabaix, Xavier, Parameswaran Gopikrishnan, Vasiliki Plerou, and H Eugene Stanley,
 “Institutional investors and stock market volatility,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2006,
 121 (2), 461–504.

Giglio, Stefano, Matteo Maggiori, Johannes Stroebel, and Stephen Utkus, “Five Facts
 About Beliefs and Portfolios,” American Economic Review, 2021, 111 (5), 1481–1522.

Giglio, Stefano, Matteo Maggiori, Johannes Stroebel, and Stephen Utkus, “The joint
 dynamics of investor beliefs and trading during the COVID-19 crash,” Proceedings of the National
 Academy of Sciences, 2021, 118 (4).

Hasbrouck, Joel, Empirical market microstructure: The institutions, economics, and economet-
 rics of securities trading, Oxford University Press, 2007.

Johnson, Timothy C, “Dynamic liquidity in endowment economies,” Journal of Financial Eco-
 nomics, 2006, 80 (3), 531–562.

Kahneman, Daniel and Dan Lovallo, “Timid choices and bold forecasts: A cognitive perspective
 on risk taking,” Management science, 1993, 39 (1), 17–31.

Koijen, Ralph SJ and Motohiro Yogo, “A demand system approach to asset pricing,” Journal
 of Political Economy, 2019, 127 (4), 1475–1515.

Koijen, Ralph SJ, Robert J Richmond, and Motohiro Yogo, “Which investors matter for
 global equity valuations and expected returns?,” Working Paper, 2019.

Kyle, Albert S., “Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading,” Econometrica, 1985, 53 (6), 1315–
 1335.

Lillo, Fabrizio, Szabolcs Mike, and J. Doyne Farmer, “Theory for long memory in supply
  and demand,” Phys. Rev. E, Jun 2005, 71, 066122.

Lucas, Robert E. Jr., “Asset Prices in an Exchange Economy,” Econometrica, 1978, 46 (6),
 1429–1445.



                                               122
Madhavan, Ananth, Matthew Richardson, and Mark Roomans, “Why do security prices
 change? A transaction-level analysis of NYSE stocks,” The Review of Financial Studies, 1997, 10
 (4), 1035–1064.

Shleifer, Andrei, “Do Demand Curves for Stocks Slope Down?,” Journal of Finance, 1986, 41 (3),
 579–590.

Timmer, Yannick, “Cyclical investment behavior across financial institutions,” Journal of Finan-
 cial Economics, 2018, 129 (2), 268–286.

Torre, N and Mark J Ferrari, “The market impact model,” The Barra Newsletter, 1998, 165.

Wurgler, Jeﬀrey and Ekaterina Zhuravskaya, “Does Arbitrage Flatten Demand Curves for
 Stocks?,” Journal of Business, 2002, 75 (4), 583–608.




                                              123
